In this course, we learn about a new electrical component, which is called astrally now, I have probably

heard about it.

Relays are used extensively, very high current needs to be controlled by a small current.

Relays are electrically operators, which is that open and close the circuits by receiving electrical

signals from outside sources.

Some people may associate Labor for raising competition where members of the team take turns passing

battles to complete the race.

The relays embedded in electrical products work in a similar way.

They receive electrical signals and sends the signal to the other equipment by turning the switch on

and off.

For example, when you push the button on a TV remote to watch TV, it sends an electrical signal to

the relay inside a TV, turning the main power on.

There are various types of relays used in many applications to control different amounts of currents

and number of circuits.

The relay technology can be divided into two categories the fertilizer movable contact, which can be

also called as mechanical relay.

And the other type is the normal.

Will the contact, which people call it as MOSFET Relay or Solid-State, relate.

So the mechanical relay is a type of relay that has contacts that are mechanically actuated to open

or close by magnetic force to switch signals, currents and voltages on or off like mechanical relays

the most it has non-moving contact, but instead employ semiconductor electrical switching elements

such as Riak and fed by the operation of these circuit signals.

Currents and voltages are switched on or off electronically.

Well, we didn't learn about mosfet or THEARC yet, so expanding it right now would cause a lot of this.

We will cover 3.x and Masferrer in the future and we also will consider.

But don't worry, we will take a brief look at MOSFET released you, but only towards the end of the

course.

So what does a mechanical look like?

Well, this image shows the structure of a mechanical relay.

It consists of a coil which receives an electrical signal and convert it to a mechanical action and

contact that open and close the electric circuit.

We already know, at least I hope so, that the flow of current through an ethical conductor causes

the magnetic field around the conductor.

Right now, if this conductor is ready to form a coil, then the magnetic field produced gets oriented

along the length of the coil.

If the current is flowing through, the conductor increases, then the magnetic field strength also

increases and vice versa.

And yes, we are talking about this current here and not AC.

When we talked about Transformers, we have seen that DC current through the primary could not induce

any current into the secondary.

And that's because a transformer is based on a very simple fact about electricity, which is when a

fluctuating electric current flows through a wire, it generates a magnetic field.

When a magnetic field fluctuates around a piece of wire, it generates an electric current in the wire.

So if you put a certain coil of wire next to the first one and send a fluctuating electric current into

the first coil, we will create an electric current in the second wire.

But I will repeat it again.

This will work only a fluctuating magnetic field which can be achieved by a fluctuating current.

So I wanted to make it clear that DC Current does create a magnetic field around any doctor, but is

just that the strength of the magnetic field is constant and that's all.

Now let's take a closer look at how a lamp is turned on using a switch and relay.

Here we have a battery in serious a switch relay, another battery and the lamp.

The lamp is not turned on.

See, the circuit here is open.

Since the switch is closed, there would be a current flowing through the coil.

Right.

This current through the call magnetize is the iron core so that it will generate the magnetic force

that will attract the armature to the core.

When the armature is attracted to the iron core, the moving contact and fixed contact come together

in contact.

So the relay contact is in on state now.

The electrical current flows through the fixed contact, turning the lamp light on.

If you turn the switch off, the current stops flowing through the coil and the force to attack the

armature no longer exists and the armature returns to its original position by the force of the release

Sprink.

When the armature returns to its original position, contacts are separated, so the relay contact is

in off state.

The current stops flowing through the fixed contact, turning the lamp light off.

One of the major characteristics of a mechanical delay is the physical spacing between the coil and

the contact component in order to achieve appropriate level of insulation or both input and output.

And now let's have a look at three sections of electrical relays.

As I said right in the beginning, relay permits a small amount of electrical current to control high

current loads.

So in this circuit, we have two circuits, actually, and the amount of current flowing in the circuit

is represented by these batteries.

So in the last circuits, we have three times less current flowing than in the second one, but enough

to create an electromagnetic force that will attract the armature.

So when the switch is closed, a small current will pass through the hole, resulting in a larger amount

of current passing through the controls to control the lamp.

The network, which is similar with the exception of the load that we try to drive.

Now we have an AC motor here which is controlled obviously by an AC current.

This example shows that AC loads can also be strictly controlled from DC power source.

Cool, isn't it?

The next circuit shows that one input signal to the call can simultaneously control several independent

circuits, but wait a little bit.

Oh, yes, I forgot to tell you that there are more types of mechanical switches based on its construction.

The first one is single, poor, single through.

These have two terminals which can be connected or disconnected, including two terminals from the coil,

sartorially has four terminals in total.

The next type is single pole double through.

Here we have a common terminal that connects to either of the others, including two for the coil.

Such a relay has five terminals in total.

The next type is double pole single through these have two pairs of terminals equivalent to two Singapore

single throw switches or relays actuated by a single coil, including two for the core.

Such relay has six terminals in total.

The last type, and I think you have already guessed it, it's double double throw.

These have two rows of changeover terminals equivalent to two Singapore double switches or relays actuated

by a single coil.

Such a relay has eight terminals, including the coil.

Now, when you look at a data sheet of early, what do we expect to see or what do you think are the

characteristics of a relay?

Well, an important characteristic of a relay is the rated called voltage.

This is the voltage that the relay is supposed to receive.

When you energize it, the next one is the set or operate voltage.

This is the minimum voltage that the relay needs to close its switch.

This will be a little bit less than the ideal coil voltage.

The next one is the rated power, sometimes called us operating current.

This is the power that relay specifically meant to handle.

For example, if a relay is rated at 60 watts, no more than 60 watts should be used with the relay.

The power rating is the power consumption of the coil, usually expressed in milliwatts.

When the relay is energized, power should not be used for a relay about its power rating.

The less important characteristics is the switching capacity.

Now switching capacity is the maximum amount of current that you can switch with contact inside the

relay.

Usually this is for as loads which are attached to the contacts of a relay example being a light bulb

attached to the relay contact for the relay to power it on.

When you use a device that requires a lot of clearance, such as a mother, the mother takes a big initial

surge of current before it gets up to speed.

In this case, make sure you choose a relay ready for double the current that the mortar draws when

it is running.

And now let's take a brief look at a relay in action in our simulator.

In this circuit, we try to control a lamp using firewall's DC power supply.

The lamp has a nominal voltage of 120 volts, so we will supply the lamp using an AC power source that

outputs as high a wave of 120 volts.

Arms the inductor of the relays here, and if I hit the switch, noticed that the electromagnetic force

will attract the armature to the core, creating a path between the AC power source and ground.

The lamp needs some time to glow, fully sees inside of it.

So there's a resistance that needs to heat up and that takes a little time.

Of course, in real life, this time would be very, very short.

Now, if I hit the switch again, the armature will no longer be attracted, so it will go back to its

normal position.

Now, what happens if I close the switch again and I start playing with the input DC voltage?

Now it's five words, but if I start decreasing it at some point, the electromagnetic force will be

too weak to attract the armature.

And that's the reason why you should look at a rated coil voltage.

And besides, make sure that your L-A can handle the power that in this case the lamp requires.

Now let's talk a little bit about MOSFET Relate.

Maspeth Relate is a semiconductor relay that uses power moscovitz in output elements.

Most of that relay consists of the following three components and LCD, as you can see here, on the

image for the diode array that receives the light emitted by the LCD and a MOSFET chip.

So a mass that really operates according to the following principles.

The LDA lights up when the current is connected.

The input side, this light that is sent by the red will be converted into a voltage again when it is

received by the photo diode.

And it is voltage would be a great voltage to drive mosfet.

We are controlled circuit.

One of the major characteristics of a mass that really is that it utilizes semiconductor so the contacts

do not mechanically open and close.

As a result, benefits include the reduction of footprint, quiet operation, longer operating life

and eliminating the need for additional maintenance.