All right, welcome back.

So we already talked about our CIHI past filters, right?

And we know that an RC hypocenter Parsees high frequency signals while blocking the low ones with a

sine wave input, only the amplitude phase of the wave changes.

However, if the input wave is a complex wave such as a square or triangular wave, the effect of the

sympathetic with appears to be quite different.

So when we feed the circuit before a signal other than a sine wave, we call this as a differentiator.

Well, the second is called US differentiator because its effect is similar to the mathematical function

of differentiation, which means mathematically finding a value that depends on the rate of change of

some quantity, the output wave of a differentiator.

It is ideally a graph of the rate of change of the voltage or its input.

This figure shows how the output of a differentiator relates to the rate of change of its input, and

that actually the actions of the high pass filter and the differentiator are the same because the differentiated

output is effectively a graph showing the rate of change of the input.

Whenever the input is changing rapidly, a large voltage is produced.

The output, the polarity of the output.

What it is depends on whether the input is changing in a positive or a negative direction.

All right, so we already know that when the cyclist passes through a capacitor, the tidal wave undergoes

a 90 degree phase shift with the output wave leading the input wave.

However, when we feed the differentiator before square wave, then an idea, a representation of the

output is shown here.

So the awkward way was you can see here is nothing like the input wave, but consists of narrow, positive

and negative spikes, the positive spike coincides in time with the rising edge of the input square

wave and the negative spike of the output, where it coincides with the filing or negative going edge

of the square.

We notice that the DC level of the square wave is also changed by the differentiator.

Why?

Because of the DC blocking effect of the capacitor.

Where do you think this output voltage appears in the circuit?

I mean, where would you hook your voltmeter to release value where the output voltage is equal to the

voltage across the resistor?

OK, so the output voltage that you see here is not the voltage across the capacitor, but it's across

the resistor.

Sees the output world is equal to the voltage across the register and sees resistor is a passive component.

The output voltage can change instantaneously.

However, the voltage across the capacitor cannot change instantly, but depends on the value of the

capacitors, which is see as it tries to store an electrical charge, which is kule across its plates.

Duse, the capacitor current is not proportional to the voltage, but to its variation.

As the amount of charge across the capacitors plates is equal to Capstone's Times voltage, we can derive

the equation for the capacitors current as it is shown here.

Therefore, the capacitor current can be written three times.

Divi over the t usque out equals to we are.

Where we are, according to our law, is equal to the current through the resistor times resistance.

The current that flows through the capacitor must also flow through the resistance right as they are

both connected together in series.

And as a result the output voltage is equal to our C times V or word.

So this is the standard equation and given for an RC differentiator.

And then we can see that the output voltage is the derivative of the input voltage within which is weighted

by the constant of our C, where our C represents what represents the time constant of the series circuit.

I hope you know by now what our time constant is.

I have covered it in my previous course, intended for beginners.

Now let's have a look at how the output waveform changes with the change of the time constant here we

can see that the shape of the output waveform depends on the ratio of the pulse rate to the RC time

constant.

Then ours is much larger, which means greater than 10 or C, then the pulse with the output waveform

resembles the square wave of the input signal.

Then our C is much smaller, which means less than zero point one, or C then the pause with the output

waveform takes the form of a very sharp and narrow spikes.

So by varying the time constant of the circuit from Tennessee to zero point one or C, we can produce

a range of different wave shapes.

Generally, a smaller time constant is always using our differentiator circuits to provide good sharp

pulses, the output across the resistor.

All right.

Now, what happens if a triangular wave is passing through the C differentiator?

Well, a triangular wave has a steady, positive going rate of change as the input voltage rises so

produces a steady positive voltage at the output as the input what it was at a steady rate of change.

A steady negative voltage appears that the output, the graph of the rate of change of a triangular

wave is there for a square wave.

A wave shaping using a simple hype's filter or differentiator is a very widely used technique using

many different electronic circuits.

Although the ideal situation is shown here, how closely the output resembles perfect differentiation

depends on the frequency of the input wave and the time constant of the component.

You'll remember that the high filter works as a differentiator when the input is first unknown, sinusoidal

wave.

Second, the time constant of the input wave is much greater than the time constant of the circuit,

like, for example, at relatively low frequencies.

So when the time constant of the input wave is less than or equal to the time cost of the circuit,

then the output wave shape will be less than an ideally differentiated wave shape be more or less like

the waveforms shown in the bottom row.

Now let's try to do a simulation of differentiator where the signal is a square wave and the triangular

wave.

All right.

This shows that the capacitor can act as a differentiator, which means what it means.

It means that its tracking changes in the input signal here, then the input quality suddenly increases.

The output is a positive spike.

When the input decreases, the output is a negative spike.

And I notice that the output voltage is taken across the resistor and not across the capacitor.

And now let's change the input waveform to triangle.

As you can see, the output voltage resembles more of a spirit, which is high when the input signal

is increasing and changes to low when the input signal is decreasing.

So although passive differentiators are cheap and efficient where it is necessary to control the amplitude

of the output, active differentiators using compression amplifiers are also used.