The recent bridge was originally developed by Charles Stone to measure unknown resistance values and

as a means of calibrating, measuring instruments with meters and meters, etc. by the use of a long

resistive slide wire.

Although today digital millimeters provide the simplest way to measure resistance, the Wistow bridge

can still be used to measure very low values of resistance is down in the millions range.

How to measure very low resistance.

He's using a little bit.

Well, in this course we will find it out on.

The list of resecured can be used in a number of applications, and today with modern operation amplifiers,

we can use that we still reserve to interface various transducer sensors to these amplifier circuits.

So storage is an example of what is dividers with two voltage dividers in parallel.

The bridge is the difference between the two voltage dividers.

Many people tend to overcomplicate a circuit for no reason, but actually this is very easy to understand.

As we said before, we still reach has many applications in electronics, including finding the resistors

of a resistor.

But how to do that?

We have four resistors here and the world meter in between.

Actually, there is one resistor among the four that has a resistance that we don't know.

And you want to find it out.

So let's suppose that R2 is the resistor that we want to measure and the other three resistances are

known.

Why are they known?

Because you decide upon the value of these resistances in order to measure the resistance of R2.

The result which needs compulsory one variable resistor, which in our case these are for the variable

resistor are four is adjusted until the volt meter reads zero volts.

At this point we say that the bridge is balanced.

So again, we play with this variable resistor until the volt meter reads zero volts.

As you can see, there are two voltage dividers in parallel.

And then the difference in what is between the two is zero.

We say that the bridge is balanced.

The last piece of the puzzle that you must know is that when the Wheatstone bridge is balanced, there

are one divided by R2 is equal to our three, divided by our four.

So based on this simple equation, if we know the value of three of the resistors in ballast based on

a circuit, we can calculate the value of the fourth resistor.

Right.

So remember, if a wisdom is balanced, then the voltmeter will have a zero rating.

Now, I have a question to you.

If the supply voltage.

Yes, of balance based on bridges doubled.

Will the bridge still be balanced?

If you said yes, congratulations.

So although the voltage on the voltage divider is doubled, the other will also be doubled.

So the difference will still be zero and the bridge will be balanced.

All right, let's do an exercise together.

Let's assume that the Western Bridge is already balanced.

If R1 is equal to 220 ohms or two is five hundred and fifty ohms and our four is one thousand ohms,

then what is the value of our three if the bridge is already balanced, which means the volt meter reads

zero would then by plugging the values in this equation, we can find out very easily the value of our

three.

Right.

So by doing the math are three will be equal to 400 ohms grade.

Now let's try to simulate a Western reading our simulator.

All right, so this shows a Western reach, a circuit that can be used to measure resistance right here.

The bridge is already balanced, so there is no current flowing in.

The central wire sees its balance.

The ratio between 200 and 100 is equal to the ratio between 400 and 200.

Right.

If I change, no matter which value to a different one, notice that the current started to flow, which

means that the bridge is not balanced anymore, in this case, this equation is not applicable anymore.

Why?

Because the bridge is not balanced.

So now there's a current flowing here.

Why?

Because there is a potential difference between these two points, again, typically one of the resistances

is unknown and the other resistances are adjusted until the bridge is balanced, the unknown resistance

can be then calculated from the others.

While FEMA's application of Western Bridge, besides measuring the value of resistor, is the Western

Bridge light detector.

So we have four registers here, two registers having constant values, one adjustable.

And here we have an ADR photocell, which is a component that has a resistance that changes with the

light intensity that follows up on it because we don't learn about operation amplifiers.

Explaining how this works is quite difficult.

But don't worry, because once we understand how this magical component operates, we will come back

here and you will understand for sure how this works for.