Hello and welcome to another course.

So resistors, inductors and capacitors are all elements that are linear and passive in nature, passive

components are ones that consumes energy rather than producing it.

And the linear elements are Duse, which have a linear relationship between voltage and current.

There are a number of ways of connecting these elements across voltage supply, but the most common

method is to connect these elements either in series or in parallel.

So a series RACC consists of a resistance, a capacitance and an inductance connected in a series across

an alternating power supply.

I know you might look at a circuit while asking yourself, is a circuit even using real life?

The answer is yes.

Otherwise we will complicate our self explaining how this works.

The three of these series Oracy Circuit has applications in radio and communication engineering.

They can be used to select a certain narrow range of frequencies from the total spectrum of an ambient

radio waves, for example, and an FM radio with analog tuners use an audience to tune a radio frequency.

Duse, for we have seen that the three basic Passi components of resistance inductor that capacitors

have very different Fahy's relationships to each other.

They're connected to a sinusoidal alternative supply.

So in a pure Omec resistor, the word is waveforms are in phase with the current.

In a pure inductance, the voltage waveform leads the current by 90 degree, and in a pure capacitance,

the voltage waveform lags the current by 90 degree.

This phase difference depends upon the reactive value of the components being used and hopefully by

now we know that reactance is zero.

If the circuit element is relisted positive, if the circuit element is inductive and the negative if

it is a capacitive.

Duse giving the resulting expediencies as follows.

The experiences of each component can be found on this column, while the resisters and reactance here,

as you can see, the resisters doesn't have reactance is right, while inductors incapacities doesn't

have resistance's, whether truth is they do have some resistance, but it's very little and sometimes

enough to actually create some problems.

But anyway, instead of analyzing each passive element separately, we can combine all three together

into a series or work with.

Our main purpose is actually to find out the total impedance of the circuit.

I mean, we need to find the equation that can be used to calculate the total impedance of the circuit.

If we know how to find out the total impedance, then we can find out the current flowing in the circuit

as well as the voltage drop across each component or so.

To find out the total impedance.

Actually, we need to know the reactors of the doctor and capacitor.

In this table, you can see that the impetus of the resistance is the resistance itself sees the resistance

doesn't change with the change of frequency.

On the other hand, in Dr. Reactance is Onaga Times el wire capacity reactance is Onaga Times.

So what is this Onaga actually?

Well, in physics, angular frequency is a scalar measure of rotation rate.

Basically, it refers to the angular displacement per unit times like for example, in rotation or the

rate of change of the phase of sinusoidal waveform, like, for example, in oscillations and waves

or the rate of change of the argument of the same function.

The term angular frequency vector is sometimes used as a synonym for the vector quantity.

Angular velocity, while we have to remember, is that one revolution is equal to two P radius has Onaga

is equal to two P divided by the period.

And which is measured in seconds and we know that the period is equal to one over frequency, hence

the angular frequency which is measured in radians per second, is equal to Tupi F..

This means that the inductive reference is too powerful and capacity reactance is one over Tupi FC perfect.

Now, when AC voltage is applied through the RACC circuit, the resulting current EI flows through the

circuit and use the voltage across each element will be current times.

Resistance is the voltage across the resistance are and is in phase with the current high current times.

Inductive reactance is the voltage across the inductance and it leads the current eye by an angle of

90 degrees.

Current times capacity reactance is the voltage across capacitor C and it lacks the current eye by an

angle of 90 degree.

Since the inductive and capacity reactance is Excel and Axi are a function of supply frequency.

The response of a series RSA circuit will therefore vary with frequency f that the individual voltage

drops across each circuit element of our LNC element will be out of phase with each other.

For the series as circuit, this can be shown as the following, the amplitude of the source voltage

across all three components in a series RSA circuit is made up of the three individual component voltages.

We are real and we see with the current common to all the three components, the vector diagrams.

We are therefore had the current vector us dereference with the three voltage vectors being plotted.

With respect to this reference as shown here, this is actually very important for you to understand

that this diagram means that we cannot simply add together.

We are we are lucky to find the supply voltage, which is.

Yes, because the all the three voltage vectors point in different directions with regards to the current

vector.

And therefore we will have to find the supply voltage we s as the Fazer, some of the three component

voltages combine together rectally.

All right, so this shows the Fazer diagram of the RNC series circuit.

You might wonder how to draw a diagram like this.

Actually, it's very easy.

First, take the current eye as a reference, then the voltage across the inductor l that is v l is

drawn and leads the current eye by a 90 degree angle.

Then the voltage across the capacitor C that is, we see is drawn, lagging the current eye by a 90

degree angle because in capacitive load the current leads the voltage by an angle of 90 degree then

that you vector v l and we see our opposite to each other.

Based on these Fazer diagram, the supply voltage is equal to the square root of we are squared plus

we L minus VXI or A squared by replacing these voltages, we can simplify this equation by taking the

current eye outside of the square root.

Now the current from this equation is equal to the power supply voltage divided by this long square

root.

Right.

We know that the current that is flowing in the circuit can be found out.

If we know the total impedance, right.

These current would be equal to the power supply.

What is divided by the total impedance?

As a result, we got right down to the total impedance is equal to the square root of R squared plus

minus X, C or squared.

So this is a total opposition offer to the flow of current by RACC liquid, and it is known as the impedance

of the circuit.

Great.

So now we know how to calculate the total impedance of a series or circuit, and hopefully by now we

also know how to draw a phaser diagram.

Now, let's do this more exercise and then I will show you something interesting in a simulator, a

series or a circuit containing a resistance of two alarms, an inductors of zero point 15 Henry and

a capacitor of 100 Micro Farad's are connected in a series across a 100 volts 50 hertz supply.

So let's try to find out the total circuit impedance and the circuits current.

Let's start by calculating the inductive reactors, the reactors is equal to two people, so it's equal

to forty seven point thirteen ohms.

On the other hand, the capacity reactance is equal to one over to PFC, which gives us a capacitance

sorry, a capacity reactance of thirty one point eighty three ohms.

Now that we know the resistance and both frequencies, we can find out the total impedance.

Right.

So this is the equation that we will use.

And by replacing the values, we get a total impedance of nineteen point four ohms.

But note that this is the impedance when the input signal has a frequency of 50 hertz, right?

If the frequency of the input signal changes, the total impedance will change to now.

The current that will flow in the circuit can be calculated by dividing the power supply voltage with

the total impedance which will result in a current of five point fourteen amps.

Now that we know the current, you can also go ahead and find the what is drop's across each component.

All right.

Now let's move ahead and see an RACC liquid in action.

But this time we will use a slightly different configuration.

So what do we have here?

We have a D.C. power supply powering an RACC circuit.

Don't take this resistor in conservation since it's here just to limit the current vendors, which is

closed.

What do you think will happen if we close this switch that I see?

All right.

Well, a current started to flow in this path, charging up the capacitor and also charging up the inductor.

The interesting thing here is to see what happens if we cut the power supply.

Well, the magnetic field in a doctor is built by the current, which gets provided by the discharging

capacitor.

Similarly, the capacitor is charged by the current, produced by collapsing magnetic field of inductor.

And this process continues on and on, causing electrical energy to oscillate between the magnetic field

and the electric field.

In some cases, a certain frequency known as the resonant frequency, the inductive reactants of the

circuit becomes equal to capacity reactants, which causes the electrical energy to oscillate between

the electrical field of the capacitor and the magnetic field of the inductor.

This entire reform harmonic oscillator for current.

All right.

As you can see, this resistance here is quite small, isn't it?

But what happens if we increase this value?

This record is called as critically down circuit.

Now the value of the resistor is five hundred and sixteen ohms instead of 10 as before, let's charge

up the reactive component.

And then let's see those oscillations in action, but where are those other nations?

It turns out the value of the resistor is selected so that it will stop oscillating as quickly as possible

in order to circuit the presence of resistor causes these oscillations to die out over a period of time.

And it is called us the damping effect of resistor.