Hello, it's great to see you back, starting from this chapter we'll be discussing about a critically

important electronic component Cohodas mosque that you see up until now we have learned and berserkers

with transistors, right.

More specifically with bipolar transistors.

Why do I specify the transistor type?

Because as you will see, there are more types of transistors, not just the people are one that we

are familiar with.

USPI no transistor is a semiconductor device which is used to amplify the signals as well as in switching

circuits.

Generally, transistors is made of solid material, which contains three terminals such as ammeter base

and collector for connections with other components in the circuit.

Transistors basically do just do things.

Electronic circuits switch and amplify, but those two jobs are the key to getting really interesting

things done.

Here's why those functions are so important.

Switching.

If you can switch Ersten flow on and off, you can control over the flow and you can build involved

circuits by incorporating lots of switches in the right places.

Consider, for instance, the telephone switching system.

By dialing a ten digit number.

You can connect with any one of millions of people around the world or look at the Internet.

Switching enables you to access a website hosted in, say, Europe while you are sitting on a train

in, say, America.

Other systems that rely on switching our computers, traffic lights, the electric power grid.

Well, you get the idea.

Switching is pretty darn important.

Then comes the amplified.

If you can amplify an electrical signal, you can store and just meet tiny signals and boost them,

then you need to make something happen.

For instance, radio waves carry tiny audio signals over long distances, and it's up to the amplifier

in the stereo system to magnify the signal so it can move the diaphragm over.

Speaker So you can hear the sound from the time of first transistor.

International presence is the transistors are classified into different types, depending on either

construction or operation, and they are explained using three diagram as shown here.

So the transistor classification can be understood by observing these three diagram transistors are

basically classified into two types.

They are large transistors that we are already familiar with and field effect transistors.

The people are Russian.

Transistors are again are classified into NBN and BMB transistors.

Right.

The fat transistors are classified into Japhet and MOSFET Jiangshan transistors are classified into

and General Japhet and be generally Japhet depending on their function.

Moskva transistors are classified into the pleasure mode and an Hasman mode again, depletion and assessment

mode.

Transistors are classified into any channel and be channel.

All right.

So these are the types of transistors.

But you might ask what's the difference between them, where you see how many differences?

And the first and most obvious is how they are schematically represented.

The figure here shows the circuit symbol is commonly used for various types of transistors.

If you look attentively, each and every type of transistor has a different symbol.

In order to become a good electrical engineer, I highly advise you to remember all the transistor types

with their corresponding symbol, because once you get to know them better, you will see that they

are quite a few differences between each of them.

So let's not rush it and take it slower.

In the upcoming courses, we will direct our attention solely towards Masterfoods.

And whilst we understand how they work and there are advantages and disadvantages, of course, over

the last one, we will also discuss about Jeffords.