All right, guys, so as I have mentioned previously, what we are going to focus on for the moment

is the metal oxide semiconductor field effect transistor, a.k.a. MOSFET.

The concept of the mosfet has been known for many years, but they only became important in mid to late

60s, one of the major problems experienced with the early development of mosfet was associated in developing

the insulating oxide layers.

The problems were only overcome as a semiconductor materials and processing technology improved.

As a result, in the late 60s Mostapha, technology became more widespread.

Nowadays, Moskva technology is one of the most widely used semiconductor techniques, having become

one of the principal elements in integrated circuit technology.

There is a variety of different circuits, symbols used for Mulford's in view of the different variety

of standards used along with the different types of mosfet.

A host of different Moskva thick with symbols can be seen here.

So the secret symbol for the basic mosfet shown here on the left indicates that the device has a bug

substrate.

This is indicated by the arrow on the central area of the substrate.

On the right hand side, we have the Depeche Mode mosfet that are generally indicated as shown here.

Now you will also see another type of enhancement mode, which is the enhancement Norburg Semin.

But let's not complicate ourself with that for the moment.

So in order to understand the differences between the two types, we have to understand that the reason

why they work slightly differently is because of how they are built.

We will to see how they work in a minute.

But first, let's see the difference in their structure.

So the first mosfet structure is often and channel assessment mode, while the second one is often and

channel depletion mode.

As you might have noticed, most folks have also three legs, just like the people are ones, but they

are terminal is named differently.

We have a source which would be similar to the ammeter.

We have a gate, which is the equivalent of base, and we had the train, which is similar to the connector.

Finally, we can talk about a major difference between Masterfoods and deployers one, and that is there's

almost no current flowing on the gate terminal.

So there's no current flowing in or out of the gate as opposed to the people are one which as we know,

there's always currents flowing on the base, right?

Collector current is equal to base.

Current time is better.

And this is a reason why people are transistors are currently controlled and not voltage controlled.

Very important fact to remember.

So I will say it again, people transistors are current controlled.

And the reason of it is because the current flowing on the base will determine the current flowing from

the collector to the emitter.

Of course, there has to be a usually around zero point seven words between the base and emitter to

bias the transistor.

But after that we play with the current in culture so that we can safely assume that there's almost

no current at all that flows on the gate of the Masterfoods.

And that's because if we take a look on how they are built, there's a thin oxide layer that separates

the gate terminal from the rest.

The gate is physically isolated from the channel by an auxiliary.

As a result, we cannot say any more that Masterfoods, our current controlled since there's no current

flow on the gate.

Right.

But then how can we control the amount of current flow from treinta source who might ask that?

It's very easy with what it.

So the voltage applied to the gate controls the conductivity of the channel.

As a result of the electric field induced capacity across the insulating dielectric layer.

So again sees the current floor is controlled by the voltage applied on the gate.

We can say that Masterfoods, as opposed to bipolar, was our voltage controlled devices.

Very important fact to remember.

In the next course, we will see how that works using the simulator, but now let's think a little bit.

If there is no current flowing on the gate terminal, what does that mean?

It means that the input evidence of mosfet are much, much greater than people are ones, which is the

other electrical component that has high input impedance.

The UPS, right performance options uses Masterfoods internally to increase the overall input impedance

so that almost a zero current flows inside of the pump.

The high input, the impedance ensures that it draws very little current.

So if you didn't know until now, amplifiers such as the upper arms, their task is to convert a low

energy, voltage driven signal into a higher voltage are possible.

Loyn and circuits can be dangerous because of the high current draw that they produce.

And as a result of amps, avoid this by having a very high input impedance.

So I guess the main takeaway from this course is that mosfet are voltage control devices in the next

course, we'll see exactly what I mean by that.

Then we have learned that there's no current flow on the gate since there's a thin oxide layer between

the gate terminal and the rest of it.

And as a result, the input impedance of the mousepad is very much higher than older people are once.