So let's jump straight into simulating how an RN channel assessment mode works.

Unfortunately, the simulator doesn't provide us with depression mode mosfet.

There's only enhancement mode Moskovitz that you can play with here in the simulator.

But don't worry, whilst we fully understand how these types of muscles work, understanding depression

mode, Masterfoods will be a piece of cake, as we had mentioned previously, mulford's our voltage

control devices, meaning that in order to control the amount of khorram flow, you have to apply some

voltage on the terminal.

How much voltage do you need to apply to the gate to turn the mosfet on?

We will see that in a minute.

But now if we take a look here on the right hand side, we have to control bars that can increase or

decrease the voltage on the gate and drain, respectively.

So let's play with the great voltage to see what happens.

Let's start from a zero world.

So the voltage applied on the gate is zero woods.

Now, in this situation, as you can see, there is no current flow from the source.

And this behavior is similar to the bipolar junction transistors, one where a zero words applied on

the base will turn.

The NPR transistor of note is that as I increase the voltage on the gate.

More and more current starts to flow through the mosfet, so the higher the voltage on the gate, the

more current will flow.

Easy, right?

But probably you haven't noticed that from zero words until around one point five volts, the mosfet

is turned off.

So as long as the voltage is below one point five fireballs, no current will flow through the mosfet.

But once the voltage is higher than one point five, what's the mosfet starts opening up more and more.

So what's this one point five words you might ask?

Well, you got to think of these specific voltage as the base and meter voltage of zero point five.

What's required for NPM transistors to turn on if we Double-Click on this mosfet?

You can see here that there is a threshold voltage specified and it's one point five words so different

Moffat's have different threshold wattages for this particular Molesworth, it's one point five words.

So basically no current flows.

If the voltage is below the threshold voltage and then you raise it about that current begins to flow.

Great.

So that's about the threshold voltage.

All right, so let's go back a little bit to our good old friend, Diprotodons sister, and I want to

show you here something so usually the threshold voltage for people transistors is around zero point

seven volts.

And as long as we are in the active region, remember, we had the separation cutoff region and active

region.

So as long as we are in the active region like now, the collector current is equal to better times

based current.

Since the beta of the transistor is 100, the collector current is 100 times the best current.

And this means that as long as we are in the active region, even if we change the collector voltage,

the current through the transistor won't change a bit.

And it's almost similar here as well.

So the drain current is determined by the voltage applied on the gate and we will understand soon how

to calculate the drain current.

But now notice that a change in DRAINE voltage doesn't effect the drain current whatsoever.

So this behavior is similar to the transistor one.

Right, however, and I'll pay attention.

There's a specific drain voltage that once it goes below that voltage, the drain current starts decreasing

nearly linearly with the drain voltage.

So if you noticed, as long as the drain voltage is about to words, the change in drain voltage won't

effect the drain current whatsoever.

But once it falls below two worlds, the drain current starts decreasing linearly with the drain voltage.

All right, so this was just a broad overview of how an engineering assessment works, because I believe

that jumping straight into theory and then into practical experiment is not the right approach, starting

with the next chapter where we will learn about all the operating regions of the mosfet and you will

fully understand why the mustaffa behaves in a certain way for different voltages applied on its terminal.