Great.

So this particular course aims to give you a brief overlook on why we receive AC voltage from the power

distribution instead of DC, I guess I don't have to tell you because you already know the voltage that

you get from the wall socket is an AC voltage.

Now, of course, depending on where you live in each continent, this AC voltage Kaveri in amplitude

and slightly in frequency, you know, compared to AC voltage, DC voltage was found much earlier.

This high voltage is found in nature.

So when people started investigating electricity, they found D.C. electricity.

First, some examples of this ICARDA nature are lightning, static electric discharge.

You know, when you touch a charged material and get a little spark, electric rays, for example,

can produce between 50 and 200 volts of 30 amps, DC current if they are threatened.

Of course, other examples from charged particles emitted from sun surface during solar storm interacting

with the magnetic field of earth.

So although DC voltage was first invented, nowadays every home and business is wired for AC.

So all your home appliances from TV, fridge lamps, vacuum cleaner are all powered from an AC source

by plugging the power cord in the wall socket.

Don't get me wrong, this doesn't mean that the TV operates internally on AC voltage.

There's something called AC to DC converter called rectifiers that converts the AC voltage to a DC voltage.

So even though your computer, for example, is connected to a wall socket or outlet which as we know,

outputs an AC voltage, the computer itself doesn't work on AC.

Actually, you will be surprised that almost all of your gadgets and devices work on DC voltage, but

if so, instead of AC, will it be easier to just receive DC voltage directly from the wall socket so

that we can avoid this headache of converting AC to DC?

Well, in order to understand this, we have to go back in the late 80s when a variety of inventions

across the United States and Europe led to a full scale battle between alternating current and current

distribution.

So in the late 80s, these voters could not be easily converted to high voltages.

And this was a big problem.

And even today, you cannot increase DC voltage very easily.

For more information about how to increase the voltage, check out DC to DC Converters.

So because these high voltage could not be easily converted to high voltages as a result, Edison proposed

a small or small local power plants that would power individual neighborhoods or city sections.

Power was distributed using three wires from the power plant.

It was plus minus 110 volt and the ground wire.

So, for example, lights and other devices can be connected between the plus 110 words and ground,

which is the neutral wire, 110 volts allowed for some voltage drop between the plant and the load,

which was which is home in this case or office or whatever.

Even though the voltage drop across the power lines was accounted for, power plants needed to be located

within one mile of the end user.

This limitation made power distribution in rural areas extremely difficult, if not impossible.

With Tesla's patents, Westinghouse worked to perfected the AC distribution system.

Transformers that we talk about later in the course provided an inexpensive method to step up the voltage

of AC to several thousand words and back down to usable levels.

All right, so let's examine why transmitting is much more efficient in terms of power than just meeting

the AC.

Here we have two separate power plants feeding two separate houses, each one being located over 1000

feet away.

The difference between the two systems is that the first power plant generates this current while the

second one AC current.

So both houses demand 100 amps current at 480 watts.

And because of this, the plant generates one hundred and thirty four hundred eighty volts.

So far, so good.

The question is, how can we transfer this power in the most efficient way to the house without any

power loss due to the long transmission cable?

Since we haven't learned about Transformers yet, let's start by analyzing the D.C. system first.

So this is system in order to carry 100 amps over the line, a large cable in diameter will be required

for the DC system.

Larger cable means lower conductor resistance.

Why?

Because resistance is equal to resistivity times less divided by cross section area.

So the electrical resistance of conductor is a function of its length and the conductor area.

And based on this equation, we can see that resistance is inversely proportional to diameter.

This means that when the diameter increases, the resistance decreases.

I know this might be counterintuitive, but the thing is, when the diameter of a conductor is big,

then electrons can flow more easily through.

It has lowered the resistance.

All right, let's not deviate too much from our topic.

So typically zero point fifteen ohms per 1000 feet can be used for a 100 conductor.

All right, so if the resistance of the cable is zero point fifteen ohms based on unflawed, the voltage

drop across it is zero point 15 times 100, which is equal to 15 words.

This means that the DC generator must generate 480 volts plus 15 volts to deliver the required power

to the house now that we know the voltage drop across the cable.

We can calculate the power loss.

Since power is equal to voltage times current, the power loss will be 15 volts times 100 ounce, which

is 1500 watts.

So let's remember this power loss and the we will compare this number to the power loss of the AC system.

Now, understanding how power is transmitted over an AC system is slightly complicated, but if you

want to understand this in more detail, take the course.

Call the long distance partners mission, of course, that you will find after learning about inductors

and transformers.

And in that course, we will fully understand why AC makes the transmission of electric power to great

distances much more economical compared to its DC counterpart.

Anyhow, let's give it a shot.

But don't worry, if you don't get it now, you will surely understand this later in the course.

The tricky part here is that we have transformers, so a transformer works only with AC signals and

their job is to increase or decrease the input voltage.

So this notation only means that the transformer increases the input voltage from 480 volts to four

thousand eight hundred.

What's the catch here is that since the voltage was amplified, the current must decrease by a proportional

amount so that the power after the transformer remains the same as the input power.

So a transformer is not a magical component that can increase the overall net power.

This would mean that the transformer works as a power generator.

Of course, it's not the case.

CES is just a basic passive component.

So in our case, the transformer increases the voltage at the expense of lowering the current so that

the output power remains the same as the input power.

So if you understand this, everything else will be a piece of cake.

Now, as you can see, the current is 10 times lower since the voltage was amplified by 10.

Since the current is lower, a smaller cable will be required.

Smaller cable in diameter means higher resistance and typically a one point five ohms per 1000 feet

can be used for a 10 and conductor, in which case the voltage drop is one point five times 10, which

is 15 words.

Alright, alright, hold on.

Now let's calculate the power loss.

So power is equal to voltage times current.

So it's 15 volts times ten, which is equal to one hundred and fifty watts.

Now I guess it's not a question which system we use for transmitting power.

The power loss in the AC system is ten times lower than for the basic system making the system suitable

for distributing power compared to its AC counterpart.