Now that we hopefully understand why we receive AC voltage at home instead of the AC, let's analyze

the most important characteristics of an AC signal.

So as we know, AC signal is represented graphically by a sinusoidal or Siwei form.

All right, so in this circuit, what we see here is that we have a firewall, AC signal generator and

a resistor in series feet, which is placed here to limit the current flowing in the circuit.

So basically to not create a short circuit.

Now, let's have a closer look at this AC voltage.

So as you can see here, alternating current flows one way, then the other way, continually reversing

direction.

Every time the voltage goes positive, the current will flow in one direction.

And when the voltage goes negative, the current will flow in the opposite direction.

So they go hand-in-hand.

If I stop the simulator, we can notice that the AC voltage is continually changing between positive

and negative.

The zero point here is represented by this gray line and how many times the wave is passing this zero

point in a certain amount of time.

It's called the frequency.

In other words, frequency is simply how many times per second the wave oscillates here in the simulator.

Unfortunately, we don't know how much time has passed from this point until this point.

So we can't derive the frequency based on this graph.

However, since we have a 40 Hertz AC signal generator, this means that in one second the signal will

pass the zero point forty times.

All right.

So the AC voltage is continually changing between positive and negative.

And this is why it's called alternating current since it alternates between positive and negative.

Let's take another example to understand this frequency better.

Here we have three identical circuits, except that the frequency of the AC generator defers, the first

AC source outputs a signal of 40 hertz, the next one output a signal of eight hertz and the third one,

160 hertz.

Do you see any difference between the three signals?

To lower the frequency of the signal, the more time it needs to make an oscillation of one positive

swing and one negative swing, the higher the frequency, the faster the signal oscillating one second.

Now, let's check some of the most important properties of an AC signal.

This voltage time graph shows various properties of an electrical signal.

In addition to the properties labeled on the graph, there is frequency which we already know measures

the number of cycles per second.

So this diagram shows the same wave, but the properties apply to any signal before constantly repeating

shape.

The first property of an easy signal is its amplitude, which is the maximum voltage reached by the

signal.

This amplitude can be either positive or negative, where positive or negative refer only to the direction

of current flow.

A negative number does not mean that the voltage or current flow are less than zero.

Only that the current flows in the opposite direction.

Many people prefer to say peak voltage instead of amplitude.

Well is the same thing.

But keep in mind that we also have a peak to peak voltage.

That's total different thing.

So peak voltage is just another name of amplitude.

On the other hand, peak to pick voltage is twice the amplitude.

For example, when reading an oscilloscope trace, it is usual to measure peak to peak voltage.

Now let's move to the next table, which is called US Time Period.

What is this?

Does it have any relevance to frequency?

So again, a cycle is while a complete repetition of the sine wave pattern since the sine wave begins

at zero goes positive through the positive peak, then negative through the zero and reaches the negative

peak and then to zero.

We say a full cycle has been completed.

Now, regarding time period, this measure is the time to go for a signal to complete one cycle.

It is measured in seconds, but time periods tend to be shorter than milliseconds microseconds depending

on the frequency of the signal.

Aha, depending on the frequency of the signal, this means that time period frequency are closely related

to each other, right.

So let's think about it.

If the time period increases, those are frequency increases as well.

Exactly, it decreases her because the signal needs more time to complete the cycle so we can say that

the frequencies inversely proportional with the time period and the equation for frequency is the following.

We can see here that the frequency is the inverse of time period, while the time period is the inverse

of frequency.

I hope it makes sense as a summary time period is a time taken for the signal to complete one cycle.

While frequency measures, the number of cycles per second frequency is measured in Hertz.

And as we have seen, electronics kilohertz megahertz are often used.

Amplitude is the maximum value of the voltage and it is also referred to as the peak voltage.

On the other hand, we have peak to be voltage, which is twice the peak voltage.

Well, you see, that's not all about AC.

We still have a characteristic.

This we are a mess that was not represented on our diagram, which is important and complex enough to

make a separate video for that.

See you next course.