You might have probably heard about a root mean square voltage.

Well, we have this time of year, and we know that the value of an AC voltage is continually changing

from zero up to that positive peak through zero to the negative peak and back to zero again.

Clearly, for most of the time, it is less than the peak voltage.

So this is not a good measure of its real effect.

Instead, we use the root mean square voltage, which is zero point seven of the peak voltage.

So the Irma's voltage is equal to zero point seven times the peak voltage and the B what is equal to

one point four times the erroneous voltage.

These two equations also apply to current.

It is important to note that these equations are only true for same Aves, which is the most common

type of AC because the 0.7 and 1.4 factors are different values for other shapes.

So the armées value is the effective value of a varying voltage or current.

It is the equivalent steady DC value, which gives the same effect.

So, for example, we have here two idea almost identical circuits.

The only difference is that the first lightbulb is driven by a 120 volt DC power source and the other

one from a 170 volts AC power source.

So even though the voltage of this AC power source is higher than the DC power source, the effective

power that it gives to this light bulb is the same with the power given by this 120 volt DC power source.

And that's because the Oremus value of this one hundred seventy volts is one hundred twenty volts.

So if I started the simulator, you can notice that the amount of time for both lightbulbs to warm up

is identical.

And also the brightness of both of them is the same.

So how or if I change the voltage of the AC to 120 volts, the Oremus value will be around 18 voltage

for 80 volts, if I'm not mistaken.

And if I reset the simulator and start again, you can notice the difference.

This gives less power to the light bulb right now, and this light bulb needs much more time to warm

up than this one here.

You might find it helpful to think of the Oremus value you sort of average, but please remember that

it is not really the average.

In fact, the average voltage of a typical AC signal is zero because the positive and negative parts

are exactly cancel out.

Now the question is if you have a work meter or a multi meter, for example, and you want to check

the AC voltage of your outlet with your altimeter showed the peak voltage or the R-Miss. voltage.

Well, your work better than it is positioned on the AC and not DC.

We always show you the Oremus value.

For example, in North America, the peak voltage provided by the outlet is 170 volts, and when you

check it with your meter, you will see the value of one hundred twenty volts.

The following question that I often hear is that what does six with AC really mean?

Is it the Aruba's or the peak voltage where if the peak value is meant, it should be clearly stated

otherwise assume it is the oremus value in everyday use.

AC voltages and currents are always given us oremus value because this allows a sensible comparison

to be made.

We've studied these voltages and currents, of course, such as from a battery.