Hey guys, in this video, I will show you how to use the circuit simulator that we are going to use

along the course.

This is by far the most amazing and easy-to-use circuit simulator.

And if you understand how to use it and its limitations, it will make your life much, much easier

in understanding how electronics work.

So again, this is my favorite simulator, and

some people will argue that, well, it's not very complex and you can do only basic stuff in it.

Well, that's true.

You want to use it for designing big and complex circuits.

However, for a beginner, I can't think of anything else that it's better than this.

Its so straightforward and easy to see what's going on.

That is just mind blowing.

I personally love using this very much.

So how to get started?

First thing, you will have to navigate to this website.

It's completely free.

You don't have to create an account.

Just access this website and this circuit will pop up right away.

As you have noticed this secure simulator runs in the browser and you can use Chrome, Safari, Firefox,

Internet Explorer whatnot to access it.

Just make sure you have the JavaScript enabled, which by default should be enabled.

This platform, as you can see, can be divided into four sections.

We have menu tab on the upper left corner, which gives you different options.

If you go to the file, you can create a new blank circuit.

You can open a file.

Save it, export it and other options.

What's great is that you can actually save the circuit that you have built on your machine and open

it later when you want to continue working on it.

Now, the Edit submenu does not have much of an importance for us.

You can undo, cut, copy, find a component, center the circuit, and zoom in or out.

If you want to copy and paste,

you can use the keyboard shortcuts, like click on a component CTRL+C and then CTRL+V.

The "Draw" submenu will list all the components that you can use in the simulator, and they are categorized

as:

Well, first we have wires and resistors, then we have the passive components category where we have

capacitors, inductors, transformers, fuse, photoresistors, thermistors, and so on.

I will show you immediately how to place components.

I just want to run quickly through the options available for us.

Then we have inputs and sources where you can add ground DC or AC voltage sources.

You can place square wave sources, clock, antenna, current sources.

Then we have outputs and labels, which allows you to add LED, lamp, text, voltmeter, ohmmeter, ammeter,

wattmeter, etc..

Then we have the active components category, which includes diodes, zener-diodes, NPN and PNP transistors,

N-channel and P-channel MOSFET, JFET, Darlington Pair, etc. Then we have the "Active Building Block" category,

which includes op-amps, analog switch, Schmit Trigger, etc. Then we have

logic gates and digital chips.

We won't use any of the components here because this would imply me to teach you about digital electronics.

And this course is solely about analog electronics.

If you do want to learn about the digital side of electronics, you can check out my other course where

I teach just about that. Then we have the scopes, which refers to these scopes here.

"Scopes" or "Oscilloscope" are the same things.

And if you have already worked with Oscilloscope, you already know why we use them.

But for those who are new to this oscilloscope are used to display the electrical signals and show how

these signals change over time. Oscilloscopes are quite expansive.

Of course, depends on the quality, but here in the simulator, we get it for free.

So here right now we have a demo circuit and we have three scopes attached to three different components

If I hower over one of the graph,

You can see that one of the components light up, meaning that this scope is attached to this component.

So this is an indicator.

And actually, if I press the button.

You can see how the voltage and the current develops on the inductor over time.

The green line indicates the voltage across the component, while the yellow one shows the current.

And by the way, you may have noticed these yellow dots, hard to not see them.

These are basically the electrons or simply the current that is flowing in the circuit.

All right.

So I was talking about these scopes here and now that we have three scopes, one for the inductor, one

for the capacitor and one for the resistor.

You can stack them up, as shown here.

And this is just a personal preference.

You want to really see me stacking scopes on one another.

Then you have the options where you can set different things.

I might come back to this later and finally, have the circuits.

Here are some circuits out of the box that you can use for practicing purposes.

So if I go to basics and click on Ohms Law.

This circuit will show up. Here, we have a 5V DC power source, two resistors, and two grounds.

Ohms Law basically tells us that the larger the resistor or the higher the value of the resistor, the

lower the current and vice versa.

We have two branches on one branch.

We have a 100 Ohm resistor, and on the second branch, we have a 1k ohm resistor.

We can then immediately see that the current is much higher on the branch that has a lower resistance,

and the current is lower on the branch that has a higher resistance.

Don't worry, everything will make much more sense as you progress with the courses.

Now, on the right-hand side, we have a reset button and a run stop button. The reset button,

will basically just reset the circuit.

It doesn't do very much for this particular circuit.

And we can stop the circuit if we want to.

Again, not very useful for the moment.

Then we have a simulation speed which can speed or slow down your simulation.

As you can see, it doesn't really do much.

Again, in this particular case.

But let me change the circuit to, let's say, a capacitor circuit.

Now we have an AC source, a resistor and a capacitor.

And we have a scope attached to the capacitor.

Now, if I were to speed the circuit up, you can see that everything runs much faster and I can

also slow it down, depending on my preference.

The next slider, which is the current speed, will speed up the current flowing.

In particular, the yellow dots will move much faster.

I want to note that these sliders do not have any effect on the functionality of the circuit.

It's just a personal preference on how fast or slow you want to examine your circuit.

Now let me show you how I usually create a circuit.

And let me delete this first.

So actually, there are two ways in which you can build the circuit.

You can either go to the draw option and pick the components you you would like to use and repeat the

same process over and over again or just use a keyboard shortcut.

So if I click on add resistor.

Now I have a resistor selected and I can draw it in the simulator like this ...

Hold your left, click down, draw it and release it.

But there's an easier way.

Notice that almost all the components have a corresponding letter attached to it, which indicates a

shortcut.

Resistor has the shortcut "r".

So I can just press the "r" button on my keyboard and then I can simply draw the resistor like this.

If you want to place wires, let's say you can't press the "w" letter and you are ready to draw it.

If you want to place a battery, you can go to draw, inputs and sources and add voltage source.

Or you can just press "v", which is what I'm going to do.

I will press the "v" button, drag it and drop it.

Awesome.

Now, if you want to change the value of any component, you can double click on the respective component

and change its value.

So instead of 1k ohm resistor, I want the 500 ohm resistor user and instead of a 5V battery,

I want a 12V battery.

Notice that when my mouse is positioned on one of the components on the bottom right corner, there's

a list of information about the component itself and about the circuit.

So we can see that 24mA of current is flowing in this closed-loop circuit.

The power source voltage is 12V, and if you were just to hover over one wire, we can see the

amount of current flowing through it.

But you can also double click on a wire and check show current and show voltage.

This is again a personal preference, but it's good to know that we have these options as well.

One more thing is that the wires that are colored as green indicates that there's a positive voltage

applied to them.

So if I were to add a wire here,

And double click, show voltage, and we can see 12V, which is the same as if I were to use a voltmeter

and place the red probe here and the black probe on the ground.

Remember that the voltages here are always compared to ground. Regarding ground,

You could either close the circuit with a wire as in the case here, or you could delete them and press

the "g" keyword and place two grounds like this.

The circuit is exactly the same, but with less wires.

One more thing, if you want to attach a scope to a component, just right click on it.

And click on "View in New Scope". The scope will pop up, and we can see that the voltage across the

battery is 12V, which is correct because we have set it to 12V, and the current flowing through it

is 24mA.

Now, the scope isn't really helpful in DC circuits because, well, everything is flat and nothing

interesting is going on here.

But as soon as we use AC or reactive components, we will use this feature a lot.

Awesome.

I hope you like this little tutorial.

I advise you to play around with the simulator a little bit to get familiarized and then proceed further

with the courses.

Have fun and I will see you in the next video.