Hello, and welcome back to New Chapter.

We started with the most basic passive component, which is resistor.

And after that, we started about capacitors, right?

And we combine thoroughly with some practical examples.

But now it's time to take this to a step further and see what can we do when we combine these two basic

components together?

So let's get started.

Familiar.

You should probably get.

And do you remember about the sacred?

Of course you do.

So when I hear the speech, there will be a current flowing in this path.

But this current will flow only until the capacity start up and the voltage across the capacitor will

be equal to the voltage of the battery.

Let me stop the simulator so that our voltage of coronagraph will stop moving.

Now, when we charge a capacitor with a voltage level, it's not surprising to find that it takes on

time for the capacitor to adjust to the new level.

Exactly how much time it takes to adjust is defined not only by the size of the capacitor, but also

by this resistance in the circuit.

The RC time constant, which is measured in seconds, is a measure that helps us to figure out how long

it will take a capacitor to charge to a certain voltage level.

The RC constant will also have some handy uses in filtering that we will see later on.

So calculating the ATA time constant is very straightforward.

Just multiply the capacitance which is inherited by the resistance, which is in ohms.

Remember to take care of your powers of time because, for example, a micro-parties 10 on the power

of minus six ferrer's y peak of errors is 10 of the power of minus nine.

If we multiply 200 microgrids with 100, we will get zero point zero two seconds.

Does this mean that the capacitor needs zero point zero two seconds to charge from zero volts onto five-year-olds?

Well, not really, but we were going to be very wrong either.

If you say so, here's an artistic grid getting charged re for travel to DC source assuming the capacitor

started with zero, would its rise of voltage over time will look something like this?

The key point here are to note that after one rc, the capacitor, we have reached about 63 percent

of the input voltage, and after five passes, the capacitor will be very close to the input voltage.

So in the previous circuit, our RC time constant was zero point zero two seconds, right?

So multiplying zero point zero two v five, we get the time needed for the capacitor to fully charge.

Cool.

Right now, if you change the DC 10 Volts power source to ground, then the capacitor will discharge,

right?

And here again, the discharge time would be determined by the RC time constant.

The RC car for discharging looks like this, and the key points on the discharge curve are at one rc,

where the voltage is about a third of the original and at five rc where the voltage across the capacitor

is nearly zero.

Here's an exercise for you.

We have this article here, and it says to find out the RC time constant, the time constant, as we

know, is equal to our times C.

So 47 kms times, one thousand micro ferret is equal to 47 seconds.

This means that in 47 seconds, the capacitor will be charged 63 percent of the input voltage, and

it will take five time constants to fully charge.