Hello.

Sorry.

The previous course we have seen how to calculate the RC time constant, right?

But why is that useful for us to know?

Well, in this course and in the next one, you will find out why.

So have you started familiar?

You should probably get.

In the previous course, we saw how a capacitor has the ability to both charge and discharge itself

through a series connected resistor.

The time taken for this capacitor to either fully charge or fully discharge is equal to five r.c time

constant or five feet, then a constant DC voltage is either applied or removed.

So we have seen that the capacitor charges up to five d, then a voltage is applied and discharges down

to five D when it is removed.

And in RC charging are these charging circuits of these five time constant value always remains true

of these fixed by the resistor capacitor combination.

Then the actual time required to fully charge or discharge a capacitor can only be changed by changing

the value of either the capacitor itself or the register in the circuit.

But what happens if we change these constant DC supply to a post or square waveform that constantly

changes from a maximum value to a minimum value at a rate determined by its time period or frequency?

How would this affect the output RCA waveform for a given RC time constant value?

What you have to know is that youthful wave shapes can be obtained by using RCA circuits with the required

time constant.

So if you apply a continuous query voltage waveform to the circuit whose pulse weave match matches that

exactly of the five hour time constant of the circuit, then the voltage waveform across the capacitor

would look something like this.

So they put voltage is a square wave whose pose with is a five hour time constant and the output voltage

is this bar here.

Now, if we increase the width of the pulleys to, let's say, eight time constants, then the output

voltage will look like this.

Or if we decrease the poursuite to just two time constant, then the output we look, it's shown here.

Now, for these two outputs, you can see that the capacitor needs five time constants to fully charge,

right?

However, if we reduce the total time period of the input for to adjust to RC, the capacitor would

not have sufficient time to either fully charge during the arm period or fully discharge during the

off period.

And therefore, as you can see here, the resultant voltage drop across the capacitor is less than its

maximum input voltage.

All right.

So I just want to show you the output across this capacitor when it is driven by a square root generator.

The first graph shows the input square rev signal, which is a perfect square V for 50 percent duty

cycle 50 percent duty cycle means that let me just stop the simulator.

So 50 percent means that the on time is equal to half time.

Oh, that's it.

And the second one is the output voltage.

As you may have noticed, the output voltage is different to the input voltage.

And the reason is because of the time constant.

So basically, what happens is that the capacitor needs time to charge up and also it needs time to

discharge.

And because our time constant given by the product between the resistance and capacitance is too high,

the capacitor just cannot keep up with the rate of change coming from the input source.

And the output voltage is only around two point seven watts, which is almost half of the input voltage.

Now, just for the sake of experiment, let's decrease the time constant.

And how can we do that either decrease the value of the register or develop the capacity right?

And as you will notice, when I decrease the value of the capacitor to, let's say, one micro Peretz,

the output thoughts are scrambling to the input voltage.

One of the uses of all these circuits is filtering signals.

We will call or filter the more details in order to get there, but I just want to show you that RC

Circuit is also used a filter and signal.

So what does it mean to filter out a certain signal?

For example, we have a circuit, and if you were to put the oscilloscope on the output, you would

notice your wattage signal, but also you will observe some noise that can be generated by almost everything.

Now you don't want all these noises, you will be a presence, right?

These are not beneficial to anyone.

So in order to remove these noises, you have to look at the frequency of the noise.

And after you find out frequency, you design a filter that will hopefully cancel out all the noisy

signals so you check the frequency of the noise and you realize that its frequencies high at least higher

than your wanted signal.

Well, in that case, we will use a Lopez filter that will allow only the low frequency signals to pass

through like our wanted signal.

But we remove all the noise beyond the frequency of our 1D signal.

So the Lopez filter lets us filter out the high frequency components of a signal, letting us focus

on the low frequencies.

We may be interested in some of the low frequencies, keep most of their strength, and the high frequencies

are reduced at a certain frequency, which is called the cutoff frequency.

The filter strength of the frequency is exactly 70 percent of the original signal.

We can calculate these cut off frequency with the following formula where the cutoff frequency is equal

to one divided by two times B times or C.

So if we know the frequency we wish to filter out, we can choose a cutoff frequency accordingly and

we can pick an R-value to satisfy any impedance concerns.

And that's all for the added value of our capacitors.