Hello and welcome back.

Let's have a look at some Real-Life examples where art is Hershkowitz can be applied.

The first three quarters we are going to talk about is called time delays here with.

So this help with has a pulse or greater rate of input voltage.

The triangular symbols are symbols buffers and you are not going to talk about this in great detail

because it's more of an advanced topic.

But what we have to know is that symbols buffalo are used to amplify the current, so they are amplifying

the current in this path and not the voltage.

All right, but how do they do that?

Well, their input resistor, which we see it's actually called impedance, is high, meaning that this

component requires a very low current of the input and it has a low output impedance, meaning that

the output current will be amplified.

Also, these CMOS buffers are active devices, meaning that they require an external power supply,

which is not represented here.

Their symbol is just a simple triangle, so a point a the signal is just a simple pulse.

At Point B, however, the signal looks like this.

We are already familiar with this waveform, right?

The competitor needs some time to charge up and also needs some time to discharge.

What is interesting to note here is the signal at Point C, who you have to know that CMOS buffers are

actually a pair of transistors, and although we will greatly cover them in the future, courses course

is yet to know that they turn on only when they reach a certain voltage.

And since input voltage of the second buffer is this way for them, the there is a gradual increase

of voltage, right?

And there's a certain voltage the buffer turns on and also turns off abruptly at a certain voltage.

So using this circuit configuration, we managed to create a delay.

Tools such as equity sometimes used to delay a pulse so that something else can happen first.

In designing circuits, you try not too often to rely on tricks like this, but they are occasionally

handy.

This show shows another example of what can be done before simple, arty timing, so great.

Here we have also a new component, which is called operational amplifier and well, we could talk a

lot about this component.

But what you have to know right now is that in this configuration, the operational amplifier works

as a competitor, something that we will treat in detail later in our course, intended for people who

already have the basic knowledge gained from these courses here.

All you need to know for now is that it is an integrated circuit.

It is powered from some positive DC voltage that you connect to the pin labelled V Plus, and it drives

its output either to V Plus or to ground, depending on whether the input labelled plus is more or less

positive than the input label minus, respectively.

By the way, these are called money working and inverting inputs.

He doesn't draw any current from its input, but it happily drives the load that requires up to 20 minutes

or so.

And the comparators output is either high, meaning it's three plus or low.

In other words, ground.

So here's how it works.

The voltage divider formed by these two registers are three or four holes the minus input, but 37 percent

of the supply wattage in this case, about plus one point eight volts.

Let's call that the reference voltage.

So if the circuit has been sitting there for a while, C one is fully discharged and the competitor

is output is at the ground.

Then you push the third button momentarily.

C1 charges quickly two plus five volt, which makes the composer's output switch to plus a five watts

do after the button is released.

The capacitor discharges exponentially towards the ground with a time constant of our two times C one,

which we have set to be one minute at that time.

It's what it crosses the reference voltage, so the competitor's output switches rapidly back to ground.

And the bottom line is that the output spans one minute plus five watts after the button is pushed.

So just to prove that the still really works, I built the circuit here with the only difference that

I reduce the time constant so that the output will not stay one minute high because we would have to

wait quite a lot here until it switches to it again.

So I just changed this resistor value to 20 kms and also I decrease the value of this resistor.

So when I hit the switch, once the capacitor will charge up much faster than me for higher resistance

here.

Note that this is a simulation right where you can increase the speed of the simulation or decrease

it.

So this means that the output on time will be different here than in real world.

So the emerging you pin.

In other words, the minus leg is a constant one point eight volts defined by this voltage divider,

while the plus leg is at zero would also, the output world is currently sits above the ground.

When he does reach, this voltage here will be equal to the voltage across the capacitor, and the voltage

here will gradually decrease them to this resistor here.

If the voltage on the past leg is higher than the voltage on the minus leg, the output will switch

automatically to plus firewalls and will stay there as long as this voltage is higher than one point

eight volts anyway.

Let's see if it works.

All right.

The capacitor is charged probably not fully the voltage here is higher than on the minus leg, so the

output is high.

This voltage here is gradually decreasing until the voltage is lower than one point eight walls.

And when it's under one point eight world, the output will switch back to ground.

So as you can see, it's working just fine.