All right.

Welcome back to New Course.

So in the previous course, we have seen that when an easy signal is correct, it is serious.

If a diode or a positive cycle will pass through the diode and the negative cycle will be blocked wonderfully

with what happens is that instead of connecting daily series to the source, we connect it in parallel.

What if we have to dial like this, or what happens if we place on this one two source series with the

diode in this course, we will show all the various ways that can be constructed.

So let's get started on.

The first day of Kliper that we are going to build is the one that can clip the positive amplitude of

an AC signal.

So how does the circuit work?

As we already know, an AC signal goes to two phases, then it's positive and then it's negative during

the positive portion of the signal current travels to the anode of the diode and then to ground and

then repeats the process over and over again during the positive portion of the AC signal.

Current flows across from the anode of the diode to the cathode sea's current flows, voltage falls

across a diode and the resistor.

We know that an average silicon diode requires a steady voltage drop of about 0.01 volts in order to

operate.

And remember, that voltage in parallel is the same.

Therefore, since our output is in parallel to the diode, it will have a voltage of zero point seven

watts during this positive portion of the AC signal.

So even though we have a five words AC power supply during the positive half of the AC signal, the

signal doesn't reach the peak fivefold, but instead has a steady DC voltage of zero point seven volts.

On the other hand, during the negative portion of the signal, current is impeded from traveling because

current can flow from the anode to the catalyst, a diode is a one way current device.

OK, current can flow in from only one direction and to cathode, meaning that no current can flow across

when the signal is negative.

No voltage is right across the resistor or the diode.

Therefore, the output of the circuit is the full minus five words from the AC water supply.

Great.

Now let's test the circuit in our simulator.

All right, so we have a five DC sorry, AC power supply, a resistor to limit the current, then the

diode is conducting and this diode here.

So as you can see during the positive portion of the signal that I would start conducting.

Why?

Because the positive portion exceeds zero point seven volts, which is enough for the diode to open

and conduct since there is a zero point seven voltage drop across a diode, the output voltage during

this portion will be limited to zero point seven watts.

Right.

Remember that voltages in parallel are always the same.

Now, during the negative portion of the signal, current is impeded from travelling because they are

these reverse bias, hence the full negative portion will be present or the output also as a side note.

Make sure that the reverse voltage, which is which in this case is minus five volts, does not exceed

the maximum voltage allowed.

For those who are confused, the reverse voltage is the voltage drop across a diode.

If the voltage a decathlete is more positive than the voltage, the anode, these reverse voltage four

diodes is usually much higher than the forward voltage, which reach for silicon diode is usually around

zero point seven watts.

Now, what do you think will happen if we change the direction of the diode so that it points in the

opposite direction?

Exactly.

During the positive portion of the AC signal, current is impeded from flowing through the cathode because

a diode will be a reverse bias.

So when this point is positive, the cathode will be more positive than the diode.

Right.

Which means that the diode will not conduct has.

The full positive portion of the signal will be present at the output.

On the other hand, during the negative portion of the AC signal, the diode will be biased properly.

Why?

Because this time the energy will be more positive than the cathode, which results in a flow of current

through the diode.

Therefore, voltages dropped across a diode and the resistor being that the output is in parallel to

the diode.

Whatever voltage is across a diode, the same voltage will be present at the output.

Now let's see the circuit in the simulator.

All right.

The same circuit.

But this time the diode is pointing in the opposite direction.

As we said, the positive portion will be fully present of the output without any attenuation.

Why?

The negative portion of the signal is limited to minus zero point six void's.

Now, if we place one more diode facing the opposite direction and we connected properly.

We will basically limit both the positive and the negative portion of the signal to zero point six volts

and minus zero point six volts respectively.

Great.

We managed to create a square wave out of a sine wave, kind of.

And now here comes the tricky part.

For ideal diodes, the output waveform would be clipped to zero.

However, due to the forward bias voltage drop across the diodes, the actual clipping point occurs

to plus zero point six volts and minus zero point six watts respectively.

But we can increase D plus minus zero point six threshold to any value you want up to the maximum value,

which is the peak of the waveform, either by connecting together more diodes in Ceres, creating multiples

of zero point six volts, or by adding a voltage bias to the diodes.

Now we will explain how to buy a Dial Capossela with a negative amplitude.

Again, the dial gives us zero point seven volts or zero point six words in the kids in the simulator.

But let's just stick to zero point seven volt.

If we want to keep the signal at three world, then we need to add two point three volts to the zero

point seven watts.

So we add a two point three volt DC source in series with the diode from a button to top the DC power

source and a diode must both be plus two minus in polarity.

If they are the voltages add to give a clear signal of three Voyles.

Now this shows 90 percent positive and negative amplitudes clipped with biasing.

So we clip the negative signal to two point six volts and we keep the positive signal to one point six

voids.

Replace a one word DC source in series with the forward bias diode.

And since the diet has a voltage drop of zero point six volts, those are the voltage is one point six

void's.

Therefore, the AC 130 signal will be kept to one point six words during the positive portion of the

signal.

On the other hand, we place a two words.

This exhausting series with the reverse bias diode sees the diode has a voltage drop off again, zero

point six wards across it.

The total voltage is two point six void's and therefore the AC 130 signal will be clipped to two point

six volts during the negative portion of the signal.

So these are all the combinations of specific ways that we can build with diodes.

Truly, any level can be obtained in biasing.

Now, of course, then you will look deeper circuit.

We will not place a battery in series with each diode.

What do we do instead?

You will use a what is regulator or voltage lighter that will provide you the required DC voltage or

a better option you can use Zenner diodes.

The Zehner diode is acting like a bias directly circuits with the bias voltage being equal to the zehner

breakdown voltage.

The output waveform from Fawwaz and clipping circuit resembles that of the previous voltage bias diode

clipping circuit.

So the output waveform will be clipped a designer voltage plus the zero point six volts forward voltage

drop of the other diode.

So, for example, the positive hartsuyker will be clipped the some of the Zehner diode, which is three

walls in this case, plus zero point six points from the other diode.

And vice versa for the negative half cycle as their diets are manufactured with a wide range of voltages

and can be used to give different voltage references.

So Zehner diodes are available with zehner breakdown voltages ranging from two point four to 33 volts.

If your typical tolerance of one or five percent, note that one conducting in the reverse breakdown

region will currently flow through the Zendaya.

So a suitable resistor must be chosen.


