Hello.

Have you ever wondered how is it possible to move an entire easy signal upward or downward without changing

its shape at all in its course?

We will talk about the we record that Klemperer that does exactly this.

So Kemper's, which are of three types, positive Klemperer's negative Klemperer's and biased Klemperer's.

Let's take the first one, which is the positive.

Klemperer the positive.

Klemperer is made up of a wealthy source capacitor diode and a low resistor in this area with the diode

is connected in parallel with the output load.

So the positive Klemperer passes the input signal to the output load where the diode is a reverse bias

and blocks the input signal when the dye is forward biased.

All right.

So let's take a closer look at how the circuit works in more detail.

During the negative half cycle of the input AC signal, the diode is forward, biased and hence no signal

appears the output right in the forward bias condition.

The diode allows electric current through it, and these Coraki flow to the capacitor and charges it

to the peak value of the input voltage.

It's very important for you to understand that this capacitor will be charged in inverse polarity with

the input voltage.

So as input current or voltage decreases after attaining its maximum value, the capacitor holds the

charge onto the diode remains forward.

So during the positive cycle of the input AC signal, the diodes reverse bias and hence the signal appears

at the output in reverse bias condition.

The diode does not allow electric current through it, right?

So the input current directly flows towards the output.

All right.

So then the positive half cycled against the diode is in the non conducting state and the charge stored

in a capacitor is discharged.

Therefore, the voltage appeared at the output is equal to the sum of the voltage stored in a capacitor

and the input voltage which have the same polarity with each other.

As a result, the signal is shifted upwards.

Now the big topic amplitude of the input signal is at UVM.

Similarly, the P2P capital of the output signal is also Tubiana.

Therefore, the total swing of the output is the same as the total swing of the input.

And the basic difference between the Clipper and Klemperer is that the Klemperer removes the unwanted

portion of the input signal, whereas the Klemperer moves the input signal upwards or downwards.

And now let's test the circuit in the simulator.

All right, so we have a 200 hertz AC 130 source, a five Microfit capacitor, along with a diode and

a five km resistor.

So during the first positive half cycle, the diode is reverse biased and the capacitor does not get

charged at the peak value.

But during the negative half cycle, the diode gets a forward biased and the capacitor is charged at

its peak value of the input AC signal.

And finally, the output voltage is the sum of the input voltage and the maximum voltage to which the

capacitor gets charged.

Hence the output gets shifted by VM level and this shifting solidly depends upon the charge stored in

the capacitor.

Correct.

Now, how do you think we can shift the level downwards exactly by reversing the position of the diet

now during the positive half cycle of the input signal, the diet is forward, biased and has no signal

appears at the output in forward bias condition.

The diet allows electric current through it.

Right.

These current will flow to the capacitor and charges it to the peak value of the input voltage in inverse

polarity as input current or voltage decreases after attaining its maximum value, the capacitor holds

the charge until the diode remains forward.

Biased during the negative half cycle of the input AC signal, the diodes reverse biased and hence the

signal appears at the output in reverse bias condition.

The diode does not allow electric current through it, so the input current directly flows towards the

output.

When the negative half cycle begins, the diode is in the non conducting state and the charge stored

in the capacitor is discharged.

In other words, released and therefore the voltage appeared at.

The output is equal to the sum of the voltage stored in a capacitor and the input voltage.

We each have the same polarity of each other and as a result the signal is shifted downwards.

All right, now, during the first positive half cycle, the diet is forward, biased and the capacitor

gets charged, the peak value, which is Vienne, and during the negative half cycle, the diet gets

reversed, biased and acts as an open secret.

So the output for this becomes the sum between the input voltage and the voltage to which the capacitor

gets charged.

This type of policy that we are going to talk about is the biased one, what do you think it does?

Well, sometimes an additional shift of this level is needed, and in such cases, Byas Clambers, I

used the working principle of the biased Klemperer's is almost similar to the unbiased Klemperer's.

The only difference is an extra element called DC Battery, which is introduced in by scampers.

And this is so similar to the Cleveland secret.

I hope you don't get confused clippings if it has a resistor here instead of a capacitor.

So if you connect the bias voltage with positive Klemperer's, then it just gets added with output voltage

and it will shift to a more positive level as the bias voltage.

And if you connect to the bias voltage with negative Klemperer, then it just gets added with output

voltage and it shifts to a more negative level as the bias voltage bias voltage can be of any value.

But remember that it should not be greater than or equal to the input voltage, because in that case,

either you will not get any output or the clipping may get reversed.