Hello and welcome back.

So there are applications Wednesday for positives Pike is required while way of doing it is by applying

a squarish signal US input to a circuit that will output a short positive spike.

How does this work look like?

Well, let's see.

Oh.

The easiest way to create a short positive spike is by using an RC differentiator, an RC differentiator

is a series RACC liquid in which the input is applied to a capacitor and the output is taken from the

resistor.

The differentiator is a high pass filter type circuit that can convert a square with input signal into

high frequencies picks up its output.

The output signal from the differentiator is proportional to the rate of change of the input signal

when the input signal arises or is positive or the input of the differentiator, the circuit generates

a positive going spike when the input signal falls or goes negative or the input of the differentiator.

The circuit generates a negative going spike where the input is constant or steady, the output is zero.

We talked about this in great detail in the previous calls for beginners that the capacitor charges

up to 50 when a voltage is applied and this charge is down to 550 when it is removed.

The time constant is equal to the product between the resistance and capacitance in Arcy charging it

is charging selkowitz these five times constant value always remains true unless it is fixed by the

resistor capacitor combination.

Right then the actual time required to fully charge or discharge a capacitor can only be changed by

changing the value of either the capacitor itself or the resistor in the circuit.

Now if we apply a continuous query voltage waveform to the RC circuit whose pulse with matches that

exactly of the five hours, the time constant of the circuit, then the voltage waveform across the

capacitor will look something like this.

Why am I showing you these things?

Because I want you to know how we can modify the duration of the output spike.

Because when I was you might want a longer spike or a shorter wire, depending on your application.

Now the what is drop across the capacitor alternates between charging up to C and D, charging down

to zero according to the input voltage here.

In this example, the frequency of the input query, what is waveform exactly matches twice that of

the five or C time constant.

These ten or C time constant allows the capacitor to fully charge during the on period of the input

waveform and then fully discharge during the off period, resulting in a perfectly matched or c a waveform

if the time period of the input waveform is made longer, for example, and on half period pause with

equivalent to say eight or C, the capacitor would then stay fully charged longer and also stay fully

discharge longer.

If, however, we now reduce the total time period of the input waveform to say four or C, the capacitor

would not have sufficient time to either fully charge during the ARM period or fully discharge during

the off period.

And therefore the resultant voltage drop across the capacitor would be less than its maximum input voltage.

Then by wearing the RC time constant or the frequency of the input waveform, we can vary the voltage

across the capacitor, producing a relationship between v.C and the time T and this relationship can

be used to change the shape of various waveforms so that the output waveform across the capacitor barely

resembles that of the input grade.

So what is the criteria that we need to obey in order to generate a short spike for the output to resemble

a sharp pause?

We need our C to be one tenth of the pause with.

So by having an RC value of one tenth the POOLESVILLE or lower, we can produce the required spikes

or the output and the lower the hours, the time constant for a given pause with the sharper the spikes

and use the exact shape of the output.

Waveform depends on the value of the RC time constant.

So in our case, the frequency of the square wave is 40 hertz, so the time period of the signal is

one over 40, right.

Which is equal to zero point zero twenty five seconds or twenty five milliseconds.

The are time constant of our circuit is equal to the product between the capacitors and resistance,

which gives us a time constant of zero point zero zero 11 seconds, which is 22 times less than the

time period of the input square of signal.

And that's why we have a short pulses.

The output.

Great, but what if we don't need these negative spikes and we want all the positive space to be present

to the output?

How could you do that?

If you guessed it, congratulations indeed dialed in series with the RC circuit, we led the current

to flow in only one direction, which in this configuration only the positive space would be able to

pass through because that's the only time when the diode is forward by us.