Hello, so let's say we have an AC voltage, OK, and this AC voltage is the input voltage to our circuit

and we suddenly realize that it's actually too low for for the circuit.

So we have to increase these AC voltage in some way, for example, where we wish to double this wattage

or in the worst case, triple it.

Well, one way of doing it is by using a transformer.

Right.

But the problem with the transformer is that it's too big in size and heavy and costly.

So we need to find some alternatives.

Well, in this course, we will learn how to double the input AC voltage or even a triple using just

a few components.

So buckle up and let's get started.

Oh.

All right, so the first issue that we are going to talk about is Caldas, the voltage doubler of what

is the circuit is a circuit in which the output voltage is double the amplitude of the input voltage,

as you can see here, in order to double the input AC voltage, we only need to diodes and to the capacitors.

But why, electrolytic?

Because we need relatively big capacitors that will be able to power the circuit that will be connected

to it.

As you will see shortly, when we connect a random load like a transistor, the circuit, basically

the capacitors will provide the current to the load a load that can be anything, a circuit, a matter,

whatever.

But we usually use a resistor to simulate a real circuit.

So how can this circuit double the input AC voltage?

Well, very easy.

I will explain it shortly then.

If you don't get it, no problem.

We will go through it one more time.

So this voltage doubling effect is achieved through the use of capacitors.

We use individual capacitors to charge up to the input voltage, so the first capacitor charges up to

the input voltage of the circuit.

The second capacitor has a successive effect.

It charges up to the value of the input voltage, but also sees the voltage from the first capacitor

having an additive effect.

The result is double the input voltage and we use diodes to block capacitors from discharging once they

are charged.

So it's a series of capacitors and diodes that allows this multiplying effect.

The circuit intakes and AC 130 signal and outputs a larger DC voltage signal.

A CBC News.

The circuit is a type of easy to DC converter.

Actually, it's an AC DC boost converter.

So all that is required for this circuit are diodes and capacitors.

Really, any dial can be used.

It's probably better to use a diode that has a lower wattage drop across a diode than a higher one.

If you can, in order for a diet to work, it needs sufficient voltage drop across it.

So, for example, silicone diodes typically use about zero point seven words, but other diodes such

as the germanium use less about zero point three words in order to operate.

Therefore, using a lower body drop, the output voltage is more accurately double the input voltage.

However, it is significant, especially if you are using a large input voltage.

So we use silicon diodes.

Perfect.

Now let's see the circuit in action.

So this circuit receives power from an AC 130 source, an AC voltage cycle consists of a positive cycle

for one half of the AC voltage and the negative cycle of the other half of the AC voltage right on the

positive half of the AC cycle, current travels from the diode one and charges up the capacitor.

C1 then fully charged C1 equals the same voltage as the input voltage on the negative half of the AC

cycle.

Current travels through diode D2 and charges up capacitor C2 capacitor C2 charges up to the same voltage

as the input voltage.

And if you did a kilowatt voltage low loop around the two capacitors, you see that each of the voltages

across the capacitors add up to give the full output voltage.

And this is how the output voltage is double or two times the input voltage.

The capacitor that we use are 100 micro ferid electrolytic capacitors, lower values can be used such

as 20 or 50 micro, but these are hard to find.

So we simply use 100 micro ferrat.

But you can experiment live with other values of the capacitor.

The other specification you must take into account with capacitors is the input.

I mean the voltage rating.

Depending on the input voltage you are using, you must choose the voltage ratings of the capacitors

in accordance with the capacitors should be a little greater than twice the peak of the input voltage.

OK, since the voltage will be double in the circuit.

I hope you understand how the circuit works.

Again, the diodes in the circuit are configured just so that during each half cycle of the eye of the

input AC voltage one is forward biased to allow the capacitor to charge up.

So during the positive cycle, diode one is forward biased, which allows current to flow through it

and charges capacitor C1.

The capacitor will be charged up to the peak voltage of the half cycle, which is 15 volts during the

negative half cycle diode.

D2 is forward, biased and allows current to flow through it and charges up the capacity to do so that

you will be charged up again to the peak of the negative half cycle.

So the sum of the voltage drop across each capacitor is the actual output voltage perfect now.

So the output voltage is actually directly determined by the number of capacitors in this circuit.

We want to double the voltage, so we use two capacitors.

So if you want to triple the input voltage, we should use three capacitors.

It would require a different circuit configuration, though, as you will see right now.

By adding an additional a single diode capacitor stage to the voltage circuit, we can create another

voltage multiplier that increases its input voltage by a factor of three and producing what is called

the voltage tripler circuit.

Well, this voltage multiplier circuit gives the DC voltage equal to three times the peak voltage value

of the sinusoidal input signal.

As with the previous voltage knobler, the diodes within the voltage circuit charge and block the discharge

of the capacitors depending upon the direction of the input hive cycle.

Then one weepie is dropped across C three and to sweep across C2 and other two capacitors are in a series.

These results in the load seeing a voltage equivalent to three VPE, but a note that the real output

voltage will be three times the peak input voltage, minus the voltage drops across the diodes used.

All right.

Just very shortly I want to show you the voltage drop across the capacitors.

So the voltage drop across this capacitor is less C, it's double the input peak voltage because our

peak voltage is 15 world and this is charged to 30 volts minus two diode drops.

Note that the voltage drop across the capacitor is equal to the voltage at this point relative to ground

minus this voltage relative to ground.

OK, now let's move forward.

The voltage drop across the capacitor is 14 watts.

So it's charged at the peak of the input voltage.

And now let's see the voltage drop across this capacitor is twenty eight words.

Since these two capacitors are in series, the voltages add up, right?

So one big voltage plus two peak voltage is equal to 380 wattages.