The exact nature of electricity is one of the core mysteries of the universe. Although we don't really

know exactly what the electricity is,

we do know a lot about what it does and how it behaves. Strange as it may sound,

your understanding of electricity will improve right away if you avoid using the term "electricity" to describe it.

:)

That's because the term electricity isn't very precise.

We use the word electricity to refer to any of several different but related things.

Each has a more precise name, such as electric charge, electric current, electric energy, electric field and so on..

All these things are commonly called electricity.

Electricity isn't so much a specific thing, but a phenomenon that has many different phases.

So to avoid any sort of confusion, I try to avoid the word electricity in the rest of this course.

Instead, I will use a more precise term, such as charge or current.

I really hate to use the word phenomenon here because it sounds so scientific.

I feel like I should wear a bow tie whenever I say the word phenomenon.

I consulted my dictionary to see if there was a simpler word I could use instead.

But none of the suggestions really seemed to fit.

But the one that came closest was "Wonder".

Wonder isn't a bad substitute. When it comes down to it,

the phenomenon we call electricity,

is pretty amazing.

It really does qualify as one of the great wonders of the universe.

Now you might be wondering, where did the word "electricity" come from?

Do you remember the movie Jurassic Park, where scientists discover the DNA of dinosaurs looked inside

bits of amber?

Amber is fossilized tree resin, and it played a key role in the history of our knowledge about electricity.

Since the days of the ancient Greeks,

people have known if you rubbed sticks of ember with fur, the ember could then be used to raise the hair

on your head, and lightweight objects like feathers would stick to it.

They had no idea why this happened, but they knew that it did happen.

The Greek word for Ember is "elektron".

The Latin version of the word was "electricus". At the beginning of the 17th century,

an English scientist named William Gilbert began to study electricity, and he used these ancient words

to describe the phenomena he was investigating, including the Latin term "electricus".

The influence of Gilbert's book, which was written in Latin, led to the word electricity

in the English language.


