Now, one of the most amazing things about electricity is that it is literally everywhere.

By that, I don't mean that electricity is commonplace or plentiful, or even that the universe has

an abundant supply of electricity.

Instead, what I mean is that electricity is a fundamental part of everything. To get an idea of what

I mean.

Consider a common misconception about electric current.

Most of us think that wires carry electricity from place to place.

When we plug in a vacuum cleaner and turn on the switch.

We believe that electricity enters the vacuum cleaners power cord, but the electrical outlet travels

through the wire to the vacuum cleaner and then turns the motor to make the vacuum cleaner.

Suck up dirt and crime and dark hair.

But that's not the case.

The truth is that electricity was already in the wire.

The electricity is always in the wire, even amid the vacuum cleaner is turned off or the power cord

is not plugged in.

And that's because electricity is a fundamental part of the copper atoms that make up the wire inside

the power cord.

Electricity is also a fundamental part of the atoms that make up the rubber isolations that protects

you from being electrocuted when you touch the power cord.

And it's a fundamental part of the atoms that make up the tips of your finger, which the rubber keeps

from touching the wires.

In short, electricity is a fundamental part of the atoms that make up all matter.

So to understand what electricity is, we must first look at atoms.

As you probably learned in grade school, all matter is made up of unbelievably tiny bits that are called

atoms.

The word atom comes from an ancient Greek fellow named Democritus.

Contrary to what you might expect, the word atom doesn't mean really small.

Rather, it means "undividable".

Atoms are the smallest part of matter that cannot be divided without changing it to a different

kind of matter.

In other words, if you divide an atom of a particular element, the resulting pieces are no longer

the same thing.

For example, suppose you have a handful of some basic element, such as copper and you cut it in half.

You now have two pieces of copper. Put one of them aside and cut the other one in half.

Again, you have two pieces of copper.

You can keep doing this dividing your piece of copper into even smaller halves.

But eventually you will get to the point where your piece of copper consists of just a single copper

atom.

Now, if you try to cut that single atom off copper in half, the resulting pieces will not be copper.

Instead, you will have a collection of the basic particles that make up atoms.

There are three such particles called neutrons, protons and electrons.

The neutrons and protons in each atom are clumped together in the middle of the atom in what is called

the nucleus, and the electrons spin around the outside of the atom.

When I first learned about atoms as a kid, I was taught that the electrons orbit around the nucleus,

much like planets orbit around the Sun in our solar system.

And even today, kids are thought this.

Schoolchildren are still being thought to create models of atoms using Styrofoam balls and wires

like the ones shown in this figure.

But that turns out to be a really bad analogy.

Instead, the electrons whizz around the nucleus in a cloud that's called appropriately enough, the

electron cloud.

Electron clouds have weird shapes and properties, and strangely enough, it's next to impossible to

figure out exactly where in its cloud an electron actually is at any given moment.


