In this course, we will be talking a little bit about the electric current, just so that you understand

what electricity is all about.

So what is electric current? Why does our light bulb turns on whenever we press the switch?

Basically, electric current or just simply current is nothing else, but the flow of electrons in a circuit.

To use electricity,

we need electrons to flow in the same direction around the circuit.

We usually use copper cables to form the circuit because the atoms that make copper have a loosely bound

electrons in their outermost or valence shell, which is free to move around inside the metal.

This free electron is very easy to move, which is why copper is so popular.

It's so easy to move that it will naturally just move to other copper atoms by itself.

But this occurs randomly in any and all directions, which is not very useful for us.

You see, electric current is what happens,

when the random exchange of electrons that occurs constantly in a conductor becomes organized and begins

to move in the same direction. When current flows through a conductor, such as a copper wire,

all those electrons that were previously moving about randomly get together and start moving in the

same direction.

If a force acts on the electrons to move them in a particular direction, then they will all drift in

the same direction, although still in a somewhat disorderly fashion,

but there is an overall movement in one direction.

The force that acts on the electrons is called an electromotive force, or EMF for short, and its quantity

is voltage measured in volts.

So the force that acts upon the electrons to move in one direction is called electromotive force,

Or you can simply call it voltage.

By far, the easiest way to apply such a force on these tiny electrons to start moving is by using a

simple battery.

When you place the battery in a circuit, which in this case is just a simple, closed loop circuit

made out of copper wire.

You will start noticing that electrons within the copper wire start moving in the same direction, and

they will just simply move around and around until the battery eventually loses all the energy stored in it.

:)

And this is basically where electronics begins.

First, you need the voltage source that has enough power or energy to move these electrons.

Then we need some conductors, like copper wires, to form a closed loop circuit.

As the name implies, a closed loop circuit is, well closed.

Electrons cannot escape the circuit.

So there has to be a way for the electrons to travel back to their initial position.

I hope I am clear enough.

As you notice, I don't want to get into too much details to confuse you.

I just want you to understand the concept of electric current.

Now that you have an electromotive force, such as a battery that pushes the electrons in one direction,

we can then place things such as lamps in the way of these electrons so that they flow through it and

generate light.


