We call we call me a call.

It's radio time in this chapter, we will be covering broadly for important topics, namely, we will

be understanding how radio waves work.

We will be seeing how transmitters and receivers work.

We'll be looking then at the different types of relations.

And last but not least, we will be building a simple radio.

However, before we get into what radio waves are, let us understand first what is a communication?

You see, communication begins that somebody wants to convey information to somebody else.

That information must be presented as some kind of pattern.

For example, speech is a pattern.

Smoke signals are a pattern.

Talking drums are a pattern.

Telephone calls are pattern.

Morse code is a pattern.

These patterns then travel over a communication channel typically involving a medium.

For instance, smoke passing through air electrical signals passing through wire or speech, passing

through the atmosphere as a series of pressure waves.

Now, whilst the pattern reaches the recipient, it needs to be decoded and it needs to be understood.

So somebody needs to understand what the dots and dashes of Morse code mean, or what the patterns of

smoke signals mean, or simply to process the sounds that make up human speech.

Lastly, it's received in a form in which the recipient can actually understand the information and

act on it.

That's the basic model of all types of communication.

And actually, this is the way in which her radio communication works.

Somebody speaks into a radio.

It gets encoded or turned into a pattern by the transmitter.

It then gets sent us an electromagnetic waves through a communication channel, which in this case is

the atmosphere which is then received by a radio.

After that, it is decoded.

So the pattern is understood and get converted again to sound that the receiver understands and can

act on.

Now, I don't know whether you heard about the golden age of radio.

This is a period roughly from 1930 through the 1940s, when the medium of commercial broadcast radio

grew into the fabric of daily life in the United States, providing news and entertainment to a country

struggling with economic depression and war.

During this time, radio was booming.

In reality, radio has never been more popular than it is right now.

In the 1930s and 40s, most people knew radio for just one thing broadcasting audio signals.

Today, audio broadcast or radio is as commonplace as ever.

But the list of other types of information being broadcast by radio technology has skyrocketed.

First, there was broadcast television, which is nothing more than the combination of audio and video

broadcasts over radio.

Then there were cell phones which use radio to extend the world's telephone network to places that phone

cables cannot reach.

Then there was wireless networking, which replaced bulky computer network cables with data transmitted

over radio.

Nowadays, there are cellular data plans which transmit internet data over radio, and there are many

other popular uses for radio technology, including radar GPS, navigation system and wireless Bluetooth

devices.

As I mentioned in this chapter, you will learn some of the basic concepts of radio, including what

it is, how it works and how it was is colored along the way.

You will learn a few interesting and in some cases sad stories about the early pioneers of radio.

And by the time you are done, you will learn how to build a crystal radio.

The simplest of all radio circuits.

One more thing I want to mention is that throughout this chapter, I occasionally refer to radio as

if it's only for the broadcast of sound.

Whenever I do, just keep in mind that radio is also used for broadcasting, video and digital data,

as well as other types of information.

And now let's see what radio waves are.