Most people think of radio as wireless broadcast of sound, most often music and speech.

But the term radio is actually much broader than that.

The broadcast of sound is actually just the one application of the extremely useful electrical phenomena

that is called radio, especially the previous course.

In order to convey information to somebody, a user must first impose a pattern which interacts with

the media in a channel which gets decoded or the recipients end and is finally received in a form in

which the recipient can understand it.

You see, most of these interactions between the pattern's and the medium of the channel are best described

by waves.

For example, when somebody speaks, they are using pressure waves in order to convey information to

somebody else.

And these pressure waves represent points at which molecules of air are packed closer together and the

point at which they are further apart.

Energy is pumped into the atmosphere to compress molecules together.

The high point of the energy which squashes the molecules closer together is called the crest of the

wave.

The low point of the energy when the molecules are far apart is called the trough of the wave.

Now, the number of waves passing by in a single second, that will be the frequency right frequency

is simply the number of waves passing per second, just like the ripples on a pond after a stone has

been thrown into it, or the little ripples that passed through a certain point would indicate frequency.

Radio frequency is identified a number of waves per second or cycles per second.

The mother term for this is Hertz.

The term Hertz.

Here does not refer to the car rental company.

Instead, it honors the great German physicist Henrik Hertz, who was the first person to build a device

that could create and detect radio waves.

Now, radio takes advantage of one of the most interesting of all electrical phenomena electromagnetic

radiation, which is a type of energy that travels in waves at the speed of light electromagnetic radiation

travels freely through the air and even in the vacuum of space.

Radio is simply a specific radio frequency of the electromagnetic waves.

The low end of this range is just a few cycles per second, and the upper end is about 300 billion cycles

per second, which is also known as gigahertz.

That's a pretty big range, but electromagnetic radiation waves with much higher frequencies exist as

well and are in fact commonplace.

You see electromagnetic radiation waves with frequencies higher than radio waves go by various names,

including infrared ultraviolet X-rays, gamma rays and, most importantly, visible light.

That's right, what we call light is exactly the same thing as what we call radio.

But at higher frequencies, the frequency of visible light is measured in billions of hertz, also called

terahertz, and the low end of visible light, which is the red, is around 405 terahertz and the upper

end, which is violet, is around 790 terahertz.

Now, as a general rule, and it's very important to remember, is that the lower the frequency that

is, the longer the wavelength, the further a signal can penetrate through solid objects like montes

walls, etc., or liquids such as seawater.

This might explain why visible light cannot penetrate through walls or solid objects, or why submarines

use a longer wavelength instead of a shorter one.

Because the electromagnetic wave has to travel a longer distance and has to penetrate through the water

and all the obstacles that can be found in the ocean.

The same thing applies for AFM or AM radio, which we are going to talk about in more detail in just

a moment.

Then you are listening to the radio.

I'm talking here about the classical radio, the electromagnetic wave that descend from a transmitter,

which can be far away from you.

I don't know tens or hundreds of kilometers away or miles away has to reach your radio antenna, and

this is only possible if the wavelength is higher so that it can penetrate through walls, buildings

and so on.

So again, longer wavelengths have lower frequencies and lower energies.

Now, radio waves, the longer ones don't have enough energy to interact with the electrons in Morse

materials.

And as a result, the waves pass through and around almost everything.

So here's an interesting thought to ponder.

Radio stations broadcast the specific frequency.

For example, in San Francisco, there's a popular radio station called Quién B.R., which has been

broadcasting on the frequency 680 kilohertz since 1922.

There are plenty of other radio stations in the area, but only key NPR broadcasts at six hundred eighty

kilohertz.

The term channel is often used to refer to a radio station broadcasting at a particular frequency.

For example, if somebody asked me what radio channel I like to listen to when I'm in San Francisco,

I would tell him key and B are now an important thing to know is that radio waves travel at the speed

of light.

And because they travel at the speed of light, we can actually calculate the wavelength of a given

frequency by dividing the distance that light travels in a single second by the number of cycles per

second.

You know?

Light is pretty fast.

It scoots along at one hundred eighty six thousand two hundred eighty two miles per second.

And as a result, the wavelength of an electromagnetic radio wave oscillating at 100 kilohertz is about

one point eighty six miles.

All right, guys.

Now let's end this course with a little history who really invented radio, you might ask.

The history of radio technology is plagued by controversy over the question of who actually invented

the thing.

The answer most often given is the Italian inventor Guglielmo Marconi.

I hope I'm pronouncing it correctly, but many others made important discoveries that give them a good

claim to the title.

Marconi He was the first person to demonstrate radio successfully and exploited commercially.

In 1911, Marconi sent the message via radio across the Atlantic from England to Canada, though the

message was faint consisted of nothing but the letter s and reception of the message wasn't independently

confirmed.

Nevertheless, Marconi accomplishment was astonishing, and he made many important contributions to

the technology and business of radio.

Another great contributor was the famous Nikola Tesla.

In 1943, the U.S. Supreme Court ruled that many of Marconi as important radio patents were invalid

because Nikola Tesla had already described these devices covered by Marconi patents.

Tesla was a brilliant engineer who is best known for being the champion of alternating current over

direct current for power distribution.

He publicly demonstrated wireless communication devices as early as 1893.

Tesla believed that wireless technology would be used not only for communication, but for power distribution

as well.

Was he right?

Hmm, I guess so.

If you look at the wireless charger cases, what they do is these chargers transfer energy from the

charger to a receiver in the back of the phone via electromagnetic induction.

Nikola Tesla already knew that this is going to happen back in the early 90s, which not only demonstrates

that he was a genius, but also a visionary like Elon Musk.