Welcome the guys in this video, I tried to explain how radio propagation works and how critical the

wavelength of the radio wave is, where you want to send information from one part of the world to another.

Now the range or frequency of this particular graph that is presented here could be between one point

twenty four times ten of the power of 20 hertz.

This is the higher end, namely gamma rays, and the lower end, which is the frequency used by submarines,

is between three and throw hertz.

So let's just take two three hertz.

What's interesting and logical is that the frequency spectrum is divided into bands, as shown here.

This is a table taken from Wikipedia.

And if you look closely, the first column is the band the name.

The second is the abbreviation, or you can call it the symbol of the band.

The third one is the frequency and wavelength.

And lastly, example uses the first band, which is called extremely low frequency are the electromagnetic

waves that have a frequency between three and 30 hertz and are used for communication with submarines.

Now you can pause the video and take a look at this table in more detail.

Just read it.

True because it's good to know, although not not critical, what you are most interested in in this

video is the very high frequency band and the ultra high frequency band.

The very high frequency band lies between 30 and 300 megahertz, and these frequencies are mostly used

for FM aircraft to aircraft.

Television broadcast, land, mobile and maritime, mobile communications, amateur radio and finally,

weather radio.

So how do these electromagnetic waves propagate on Earth?

As we already know, a communication, whether it's a FM radio, television, broadcast aircraft, two

aircraft, so on.

There has to be a transmitter, the one that sends these electromagnetic waves that contain information

out into the space.

And there must be a receiver that will get the information decoded and it will do something with it.

It's useful to think about radio waves, to think about light waves, light travels in rays and the

radio waves do the same thing.

It is called radio propagation when white light goes into a priest.

It is separated by a wavelength into red, orange, yellow, green, blue and violet in the same way.

Radio waves are going to propagate differently, depending on their wavelength.

And as we already know, radio wavelengths are much bigger than light wavelengths.

Now, let's have a look at the propagation of radio waves travelling in order to communicate if users

who are in different parts of the world using in radio terms.

Part of the very high frequency spectrum radio that is in the very high frequency band travels in a

straight line.

In other words, the rays travel using the line of sight.

If two users on the opposite side of the world want to communicate, the radio wave cannot use the light

of sight propagation because it travels in a straight line and will not go around the curve of the Earth.

So the solution for contacting somebody who's over the curved horizon is to put a satellite up, and

the satellite will receive the signal from the radio color and then transmit it in another straight

line.

Line of sight to the person receiving it at the other end.

So this is one method that is being applied in today's world to transmit information for a while, part

of the world to another.

And the ultra high frequency band, which would be the frequencies between 300 and 3000 megahertz,

operate in exactly the same way in longer wavelengths of radio.

However, the propagation is different, for example, in lower shortwave, which is around 300 kilohertz

to three megahertz.

The radio propagation, or radio wave, can actually curve itself around the horizon or the curvature

of the Earth.

In higher shortwave, which is what people in the 40s and 50s used to listen to when they wanted to

hear international broadcasts, the properties are different again.

The radio propagation is going to do an interesting exercise.

First, it bounces off a top layer of the atmosphere called the ionosphere.

Then it bounces back to the Earth.

This is called reflection.

It then bounces up again.

Today, you're not sphere and continues bouncing back again until it reaches the radio receiver.

This is called a sky wave, which works around three to 30 megahertz.

So you could see in this video, radio propagation, like other radio properties, can depend critically

on radio wavelength.