Hey, now that we have a basic understanding of how radios work, it's time for us to look in more detail

on how a radio transmitter works.

Understanding how an electronic device transmits radio waves into the air is not very easy, but it's

not that hard either.

So don't worry, I will try my best to break this complex, stopping down as much as I can.

And as a result in this video, we are just going to look at the main building blocks that are required

to build a functional radio transmitter.

Now you might ask.

Hold on a second.

How can the device just send electromagnetic waves into the air?

Is it like a water god where you press the trigger and the radio waves come out?

Well, not quite.

So let me explain.

There are many natural sources of radio waves, but in the later part of the 19th century, scientists

figured out how to generate radio waves using electric currents.

In a nutshell, if you press an alternating current into a length of wire, radio waves are the same

frequency as the alternating current are generated.

Well, as we already know, for a communication to take place, there has to be a transmitter and the

receiver.

The transmitter generates radio waves and the receiver well detects them.

A radio transmitter consists of several elements that work together to generate radio waves that contain

useful information, such as audio or video, or just data.

And these components are shown here.

First and foremost, we need the power supply, right.

This will provide the necessary electrical power to operate the transmitter.

Then we have an oscillator.

These oscillator block or circuit creates an alternative current of the frequency on which the transmitter

will transmit.

This oscillator usually generates a sine wave, which is referred to as a carrier wave.

Now here's the deal I couldn't really figure out what should I pay first, how signal modulation works,

or how a radio transmitter works.

What I'm trying to say is that these block diagrams might not really make sense to you until you understand

signal modulation and its purpose.

Nonetheless, I advise you to follow this video, but remember that you will only fully understand this

block diagram once you understand signal modulation, which we'll talk about in this chapter.

So again, the oscillator block will generate a sine wave at the fixed frequency, which we call a carrier

wave.

As the name implies, a carrier wave will be the one that carries the information from the transmitter

to the receiver.

Think about the carrier wave of the car.

The car is the tool we use to transport ourself from one place to another.

So in this context, the car could be the carrier wave and the person sitting in the car is the vital

information that needs to be transmitted.

Awesome.

Now, the next phase of a radio transmitter is adding the useful information that needs to be transmitted

to the carrier or wave.

And this is done by what we call the modulator.

In other words, we could say or associated this phase us the moment when the person enters the car,

adding information to the carrier wave is what we call signal modulation.

And there are many types of signal modulation.

The two most popular ones is amplitude modulation, or simply am.

And the second one is frequency modulation, or simply AFM.

Basically, just so that I give you a little taste, the amplitude modulation is a technique used to

add information to the carrier wave that is generated by the oscillator.

And the way it happens is by making slight increase or decrease the intensity of the carrier wave by

repeatedly changing the attitude of the carrier wave.

We can encode information into the carrier wave.

On the other hand, the other popular technique is the frequency modulation, and instead of changing

the amplitude of the carrier wave, we change its frequency.

Awesome.

So again, don't worry if you don't really understand this concept, everything will make much more

sense as you progress with the videos.

Now, the third stage of a radio transmitter is the amplifier stage.

But as the name implies, this block is responsible of amplifying the modulated carrier wave to increase

its power.

Why do we do that?

Well, as you might have guessed, the more powerful the amplifier, the more powerful.

Fulda, what the broadcast right finally was, the modulated signal is amplified, the antenna will

convert these amplify signal to radio waves that will start propagating into the air, hoping to be

received by a radio receiver, which we will break down just as we did here in the next course.

I will see you there.