Hello, everyone.

In the previous course, we have seen how a radio transmitter is constructed using block diagrams,

the power supply provides the necessary electric power to operate the transmitter.

Then the oscillator will generate a carrier wave, which is usually nothing else but the simple sine

wave at a fixed frequency.

The modulator then will add the useful information to this carrier wave, so it will encode the information

into the carrier wave using some sort of techniques that we will learn about soon.

Then the modulated signal is amplified and transmitted via the help of the antenna that will convert

the amplified signal to radio waves.

Pretty easy right now.

Let's go to the other side and see how a radio receiver is constructed.

Of course, again, we are going to use block diagrams for simplicity purposes, but towards the end

of this chapter, we are going to build our own the receiver.

So a radio receiver is the opposite of a radio transmitter.

It uses an antenna to capture radio waves, processes, doos waves to extract only those waves that

are vibrating at the desired frequency expects the audio signals that were added to do as waves amplifies

the audio signals and finally plays them on a speaker.

This figure shows these components, so let's try to explain each block diagram one by one.

First, we have an antenna, right?

This will be responsible of capturing the radio waves.

Typically, the antenna is simply a length of wire when this wire is exposed to radio waves.

The waves induce a very small, alternating current in the antenna.

That's the reason why we use an RF amplifier right at the beginning so that these very small alternating

current induced in the antenna is amplified lost.

The signal received is amplified.

We feed it into something called tuna.

Now, the tuna might be the most difficult part.

Understand a tuna is nothing else but the circuit that can extract signals of a particular frequency

from a mix of signals of different frequencies on its own.

The antenna captures radio waves of all frequencies and sends them to the RF amplifier, which dutifully

amplifies them all.

Unless you want to listen to every radio channel at the same time, you need a circuit that can pick

out just the signals for the channel you want to hear, and that's the role of the tuner.

The tuner usually employs the combination of an inductor.

For example, a coil and a capacitor to form a circuit that resonates at a particular frequency.

This frequency, called the resonance frequency, is determined by the values chosen for the call and

the capacitor.

This type of circuit tends to block any AC signals at the frequency above or below the resonant frequency.

You can adjust the resonant frequency by wearing the amount of inductance in the coil or the capacitance

of the capacitor.

In simple radio receiver circuits such as the one you will learn about at the end of this chapter,

the tuning is adjusted by varying the number of turns of wire in the coil.

More sophisticated tuners use a variable capacitor, also called a tuning capacitor to vary the frequency.

So again, the tuner will filter out all the frequencies that are not relevant.

So let's see if the radio transmitter transmits at the frequency of ninety nine point six kilohertz,

and we want to receive only this particular frequency.

Then we will have to adjust the tuner so that it will filter out all the frequencies above ninety nine

point six kilohertz and below ninety nine point six kilohertz.

If you have used a radio receiver before, you know that if you want to listen to a particular channel,

you have to turn the knob until the sound becomes a loud and clear.

Then you turn the knob.

You are actually modifying the tuner to allow only a radio channel to be received, so the tuner is

nothing else but the filter.

Awesome.

Now, once we have a channel selected, the signal will be fed into a detector state.

This stage is responsible for separating the audio information from the carrier wave.

If you recall the transmitter and quality for.

Nation into a carrier wave.

So our responsibility now is to decode this information.

Don't worry, I will show you in more detail how a detector works.

But for now, let's just understand the purpose of each block diagram.

So the detector will be the one which gets rid of the carrier rate and will extract the data from it

in technical terms.

The detector will modulate a previously modulated signal by removing all the high frequency components

of a signal.

Once we learn about modulation techniques, you will see that the carrier wave has a much higher frequency

than the information itself.

And that's the reason why the detector or the modulator will get rid of the high frequency components.

Once the data is instructed by data, I mean the audio signal.

If we are strictly talking about classical radios, the audio signal is amplified and fed into a speaker

so that everyone can hear the audio loud and clear.

Now, of course, that many variations on these basic radio receiver design, many receivers include

additional filtering and tuning circuits to better lock on to the intended frequency or to produce better

quality audio output and exclude other signals.

Still, these basic elements are found in most receiver circuits.