Finally, we have reached the stage to talk in more detail about signal modulation, as we already know,

the radio transmitter uses some sort of technique to encode information into a carrier wave, which

will be that amplified and just mated via an antenna.

But why exactly do we use modulation and why do we need the carrier wave in the first place?

Couldn't we just transmit the information directly without the help of a carrier wave?

After all, the information itself is also an easy signal.

So theoretically, we could just amplify and send it right.

Why, then, do we bother to use modulation at all to ask for this question?

Consider your own the bank of one side of the river, and I will give you a paper and tell you to throw

it to the other side of the bank.

Is it possible to throw the paper which doesn't have suitable mass to the other side of the river?

The answer is no.

So in order to make the paper reach the other side of the river, I will use a stone with the paper

and throw it, and now it will reach the other side in communication.

The message signal will be of low frequency, which is like paper lightweight and in order to make it

heavy, a carrier signal, which is stone, is used to send data from the transmission station to the

receiving station.

Another example would be Consider you have a food and you have to take it to school for lunch.

Will you carry the food with your hand?

No, right?

You will use a carrier box and you will eat the food, not the carrier box.

This is why modulation and the modulation is required in communications systems.

Modulation by a dictionary definition, it says that changing any of the parameters of carrier signal,

such as amplitude frequency or phase of the signal before respect to the input voltage of the message

signal at that particular instance of time, and keeping the other parameters constant is called modulation.

So encoding information into a carrier wave is done by altering either the amplitude, the frequency

or the phase of the carrier wave.

There are also other techniques used and more complicated ones, but for now, let's just stick to the

fundamentals.

So without modulation, communication through long distances like we have today would be impossible.

And why is that?

That's because the information that we want to send, which could be our voice talking into a microphone,

has low frequency and low energy.

Well, on the other hand, the carrier wave has a high frequency and high energy.

So we are placing our information on top of this carrier wave to carry the information from the transmitter

to the receiver.

Actually, this might not even be the main reason why we use modulation, even though it's very important.

Let's imagine a scenario where we don't use modulation at all and all the transmitters in the world

transmit just the information itself, meaning just the audio signal every human that can hear only

frequencies between 10 hertz and approximately 20 kilohertz.

This means that each and every transmitter in your city would broadcast audio signal between this frequency.

Now, tell me, how would you be able to select which radio station or which radio channel you want

to listen to your radio receiver?

First has to be set using the tuner to receive frequencies between 10 and 20 kilohertz.

And what would happen is that you will most probably hear all the radio channels at the same time.

How awesome is that?

Unfortunately, this would not work.

You cannot listen to all the radio channels at the same time, right?

What you would hear is a radio channel overlapping with another one and then another one and another

one creating a chaos.

Even though all the radio channels transmit audio signals, we need a way to differentiate them and

to select only one from the multitude of radio channels.

So to avoid this mixing of signals, we need to use modulation.

You'll see each transmitter in your city agrees, broadcast at a particular frequency determined by

the frequency of the carrier wave for each transmitter in your city.

The frequency of the carrier wave will differ, which makes it much easier to select only the radio

channel you want to listen to.

Let's say if you know that a radio channel transmits at the frequency of 88, not seven kilohertz,

you would set your radio to filter out everything above and below this frequency, which as we know,

can be done you.

Go Band Pass filter.

Now your radio receiver will then modulate this 88 dot seven kilohertz signal, meaning it will get

rid of the carrier wave and what you will hear is the audio signal before frequencies ranging from ten

hertz up to 20 kilohertz.

There are also other reasons why these motivation like, for example, the antenna eyes.

What's really interesting is that the higher the frequency you want to broadcast, the smaller your

antenna can be.

If you would like to broadcast only the information itself, which has a low frequency, you might end

up having an antenna of several meters.

Alternatively, if you modulated the signal with a high frequency carrier wave, your antenna size can

shrink down to just a few centimeters.

So the main idea is that the length of the antenna is inversely proportional to the frequency and directly

proportional to the wavelength.

And the higher the frequency and the shorter the wavelength, the shorter the antenna can be made.

Awesome.

So if you have any questions, drop a comment below.

And now let's discuss in more detail how amplitude modulation works.