The original method of encoding sound information or radio waves is called amplitude modulation, or

simply am.

It was developed in the first few decades of the 20th century, and AMM is a relatively simple way to

add audio information to a carrier wave.

So that sounds can be transmitted.

Now, the following figure illustrates how amplitude modulation works.

The first graph shows the modulating wave, which is the message signal.

The next one is the carrier wave, which is a high frequency signal and contains no information.

Why the last one is the resultant modulated wave amplitude modulation, or AM, as it is often called,

is a form of modulation used for radio transmissions for broadcasting and two way radio communication

applications.

One of the key reasons for the use of amplitude modulation was its ease of use.

The system simply required the carrier amplitude to be modulated.

But more importantly, the detector required in the receiver could be a simple diode based circuit.

This meant that AMM radios did not need complicated emulators and costs were reduced, which was the

key requirement for widespread use of radio technology, especially in the early days of radio that

ices were not available.

I want to note that we will take a look into how an AM receiver is built in the following videos.

So in order for a radio signal to carry audio or other information for broadcasting or for two way radio

communication, it must be modulated or changed in some way.

Although there are a number of ways in which a radio signal may be modulated.

One of the easiest is to change its amplitude in line with variations of the sound.

So when you mix the message signal with the carrier wave the result on Signal, we look at something

like this.

If we were to connect the peak voltage of each cycle, we would get an envelope that resembles 100 percent

of the massive signal.

So this envelope of the signal you can see follows the contours of the modulating signal.

And of course, this envelope is just something that we had drawn on the graph.

But it helps us visualize how the amplitude of the modulated signal changes in time in accordance of

the voltage of the massive signal.

As you can see, the amplitude modulation technique encodes information into the carrier wave by simply

changing the amplitude of the carrier wave in relation to the voltage of the message signal while keeping

the frequency of the modulated signal constant.

As with any technology, there are advantages and disadvantages to be considered.

The first advantage of air modulation is that it's easy to implement.

Another advantage is that the air modulated signal can be modulated using a circuit consisting of very

few components.

And lastly, AM receivers are very cheap as more specialized components are needed.

Unfortunately, the disadvantages of the air modulation outweigh the pros.

And that's because they are not very efficient.

In particular, this technique is not efficient in terms of its power usage.

And finally, the main disadvantage of this modulation technique is that it is prone to high levels

of noise because you see noise is amplitude based and obviously an detectors are sensitive to it.

Now, although in the current technological climate and in its basic form, is not nearly as effective

as other modes that can be used.

It is still retained in many areas like broadcasting because of the number of users.

However, it is likely that with time, its use will decrease the further and ultimately many a.m. transmissions

will cease.

However, its derivatives, like quadrature amputee's modulation, are widely used as they offer a very

effective form of modulation, especially for data transmission.

Regardless, understanding air modulation is crucial, especially if you want to understand how more

complicated techniques work.