So this is a sketch of some of the components involved in AM Radio transmission as the audio in order

to generate the radio frequency signal for AM radio transmission.

The information contained in the original sound signal must be put in a form that can be sent to a great

distance.

And how do we do that?

By applying a modulation technique such as amplitude modulation, for example, the amplitude modulator

block will take us input a carrier wave that has a fixed frequency, let's say three kilohertz.

And the second input will be the sound signal, which might be someone talking into a microphone.

Now, the voltage of the sound will be used to vary the amplitude of the carrier wave by an amount proportional

to the strength of the original sound signal.

The modulated carrier wave is then amplified by the carrier transmitter, which amounts to a power amplifier,

which can applied the modulated electrical wave to the conducting element in the transmitting broadcast

antenna of the radio station whilst the signal is transmitted.

A radio receiver that is relatively close to the transmitting antenna will pick up the signal using,

of course, an antenna.

What is the radio receiving going to do with the signal?

Hmm.

Let's find out.

All right, folks, here we are.

And the circle that you see here is a radio receiver or more technically an am detector.

The first cop shows the signal on the antenna.

So here we have an antenna.

The middle scope shows the carrier wave, and the scope shows the message signal after demolition.

So how does this work?

First and foremost, we have to acknowledge the fact that in an area or, let's say, inner city, there

can be more than one transmitters, right?

I mean, this is usually always the case.

There can be hundreds or thousands of transmitters in close proximity of your radio.

If that's the case, which usually is the signal that you see here on the antenna is a mixture of all

the radio channels and noise that are flying in the air and inevitably picked up by the antenna.

What do we do after that?

Well, we need to select our channel, which is usually done by rotating the knob in one direction until

the desired channel.

But that particular frequency becomes loud and clear.

As I said at the beginning, we are broadcasting at a frequency of three kilohertz.

So the job of our radio receiver is to select only the channel transmitting at three kilohertz.

Now this channel selection is done using a tuner, which in our case is composed of an inductor and

the capacitor placed in parallel.

In our example, we use a fixed value capacitor, but in a classical radio, when you are rotating this

knob or whatever it is, you are actually modifying the value of this capacitor in our particular case.

We have a two point eight microflora capacitor and a one milli henry inductor.

Again, the job of a tuner is to separate one radio channel from the thousands of radio signals that

the antenna receives.

The tuner works using a principle called resonance.

And I'm sure you have heard about resonant frequency before when you place any doctor and the capacitor

in parallel.

They will resonate at a particular frequency.

And this resonant frequency is represented by the following equation.

Now, if you plugged the value of the inductor and capacitor into this formula, we will get the frequency

of three kilohertz.

So using only doctor of one Milli Henry and the capacitor of 2.8 Micron Farad, we set the tuner to

resonate at a frequency of three kilohertz, which is exactly what you want whilst the tuner starts

resonating, which is due to the fact that from the multitude of radio signals that is picked up by

the antenna, there exists a signal before frequency of three kilohertz.

The output of the tuner can be visualized by placing a scope between the tuner and a diode capacitor

circuit.

In this hope, we can beautifully see the modulated carrier wave, which is a combination of the massive

signal and the carrier signal that we have talked about in previous courses.

And for those who are wondering what this green stuff is, it's just a simple AC signal, but the horizontal

scale.

In other words, the timescale has been decreased so that we can clearly see the modulated signal just

like the textbooks teaches us.

So look at this how beautiful it is.

What you see here is the combination of the massive signal and the carrier wave and what is our next

step?

Well, we have to get rid of the carrier RIP, the carrier wave did its job by carrying the information

from one place to another, but it's time for us to say goodbye from it.

And how do we do that?

Well, by simply using a diode and a capacitor, by using a diode and a capacitor.

Believe it or not, we can extract the information from this modulated signal.

By the way, this diode capacitor circuit is called the detection stage.

OK, so we have the tuning stage, then we have the detection stage.

So let's pause a little bit.

Why do you think we need this diode here?

Well, if we look at this modulated signal, we can immediately see that our message is present twice,

the information itself is this envelope, right?

But the notice that we have a positive and a negative envelope, this negative envelope is formed due

to the fact that this is an easy signal.

So it oscillates between positive and negative voltage.

As I have mentioned, this positive and the loop is what we need.

And the easiest way to get rid of the negative voltage is by rectifying the signal using a diode.

Again, a diode is used to rectify this signal.

And this only allows current to flow in one direction.

And this means that half of the waveform is allowed through.

Now, after Diode, we will only have the positive side of the AC signal.

In other words, only the positive the which is exactly what we need.

But we are not done yet.

We got rid of the negative side of the modulated wave, but we still need a way to extract the message

from this wave.

And as we already know, the contour or the envelope is the message itself.

It's the AC message that was used to modulate the carrier wave.

So by placing a capacitor in parallel, the peak voltage of each cycle will be connected together.

And the result a message is shown in this graph.

As you can see, the message signal is a little bit noisy, which might occur because of the mismatch

of the value of this capacitor.

You can't play around with this capacitor and see how changing its value affects the message signal.

Or better yet, you could place another capacitor in parallel to reduce these tiny ripples from the

message signal.

But yeah, that's it.

We have successfully modulated the radio wave.

We got the message which could be then fed into an amplifier stage, right?

Because at this moment, the message is weak and tired after all its journey.

So we could amplify it and feed it into a loudspeaker.