All right, guys, we'll come back.

The truth is, we have barely scratched the surface regarding signal modulation techniques.

Amplitude modulation was the first and most widespread modulation technique in the 90s.

But with the advancement in technology, newer and newer techniques have appeared, which improved not

only the efficiency in terms of power usage and data rate, but it also improved the distance of broadcasting

and noise immunity.

You see how people modulation is the worst when it comes to noise immunity.

Because the noise is induced in the radio wave or in the antenna, the noise will obviously have an

impact on the amplitude of the modulated wave.

And since information is encoded based on the amplitude of the carrier wave, the information itself

will get corrupted anyway.

Here's a graph showing the types of population that exist, but it's not exhaustive.

This is kind of like a broad classification illustrating how all these different techniques could be

classified.

I want to note that I really don't want to bore you out by me trying to explain all these techniques

unless you are really interested in telecommunication.

Sure, go ahead.

But I really don't think it's necessary for you to understand in detail how these techniques work,

but because they are not important, but because it's not our area of interest at this moment.

Although a solid understanding of the fundamentals is crucial and not only Nov 20, but in almost everything.

So this graph lays down the types of the data that exist based on data and carrier types.

Modulation can be classified into analog carrier and digital carrier.

So let's look at the analog carrier first.

And the carrier can be further divided into analog data and digital data.

Based on this graph, we can clearly see that AM A and PM uses analog carrier.

In other words, a high frequency sine wave and the message signal is also analog.

Let me talk you to a microphone.

The input is an analog signal, right?

We are not talking in ones and zeros.

That would be crazy, as we already know, using amplitude modulation technique.

The amplitude of the carrier wave changes according to the instantaneous amplitude of the message signal

kipping phase and frequency constant.

Now, if you were to apply frequency modulation, the story does not differ very much.

It's just that instead of amplitude, it's the frequency of the carrier wave that will change according

to the instantaneous amplitude of the modulating signal that the amplitude of the message signal is

at its peak.

The frequency increases, and as the amplitude of the message decreases, so does the frequency of the

carrier wave.

The great advantage of frequency modulation is that the noise in AFM is reduced to a large extent by

employing amplitude limiters to remove the amplitude variations caused by noise.

However, these amplitude limiters cannot be used in him.

US information is contained in the amplitude variations of the signal.

As a result, FM reception is more or less immune to noise.

Ether broadcast operates in the upper, very high frequency and ultra high frequency band, where noise

effects are minimal.

On the other hand, AM broadcast operates in the medium frequency and high frequency, which are easily

affected due to noise.

Based on this graph, we can see that AMM radios usually operate between the frequency of 540 and 1600

kilohertz, where each band.

In other words, each radio channel accredited by the local government receives a tiny band of 10 kilohertz.

So there is a whole pie, and each radio channel in a particular area or city receives a tiny slice

from it.

Unlike AM, FM operates in the range between eight 8.1 and 110 8.1 megahertz.

And what's great is that each radio channel can now get a much higher bandwidth than previously, namely

200 kilohertz.

So Finkle bandwidth as the internet bandwidth in your home.

The higher the band with, the greater the speed of the internet speed become in case of FM transmitters.

A higher bandwidth allows for greater information to be sent in a signal, so the quality of the signal

will be improved, and it also allows them to transmit stereo audio.

A problem with them is the length of the transmission an am.

Transmission and reception can go for longer distances, but at a smaller signal, that is the reason

for most air is in mono, even if played on a stereo setup.

So the main idea is that the quality of the audio is higher in AFM than in a.m. due to the larger allocated

bed of each radio channel.