Now, if you think about it, the information that we want to send can be an either analog format like

maybe talking to a microphone, but it can also be in digital format like was zeroes.

So scientists were eager to find out how on earth could we broadcast ones and zeroes?

And they came up with modulation techniques such as Ask FCC pesky KUNM Ask is the acronym for amplitude

shift keying.

FCC comes from frequency shift king.

Then we have Perth shift keying and finally quadrature amplitude modulation.

This time, the data transmitted is just a bunch of ones and zeros, and the carrier wave that will

transport these ones and zeros is again a simple, high frequency sine wave.

Now, the main reason why these type of migrations are so great is because they allow data to be multiplexed.

An essential part of our telecommunications and telecommunications is the ability to share the channel.

This is true regardless of whether the channel is copper wire, optical fibre or free space.

If it's not shared, then there can only ever be one person transmitting on it at a time.

Now think about the implications of this for a moment without the ability to share.

There could only be one radio or TV station in each area.

Only one mobile phone owner could use their phone in each cell, but any one time.

And there would only be the same number of phone calls between any two cities as the number of copper

wires or optical fibers that connected them.

So sharing the channel is essential, and there are several methods of doing so.

One is called time division multiplexing and involves giving the users exclusive access to the channel

for short periods of time.

On the face of it, this type of sharing might seem impractical.

Imagine giving all mobile phone users in a cell just a minute or so to make their call than having to

wait until their turn comes around again.

However, time division multiplexing works well, then the access time is extremely short, usually

less than a second, and the rate of the sharing is fast.

This allows multiple users to appear to have access all at the same time.

The way Amplitude Shift King works is relatively easy.

Yes, he requires two input signals.

First, input is a binary sequence signal, which is the message signal, and the second input is the

carrier signal that would transport the message from one place to another.

After modulation, we can notice that the strength or the amplitude of the carrier signal varies to

represent binary one and binary zero data inputs.

When the message signal is one, the carrier will stay the same.

But when the data is zero, the amplitude of the carrier wave becomes zero.

Frequency shifting is similar, but instead of the amplitude, we now vary the frequency of the carrier

wave when the data transmitted is one.

The frequency of the carrier wave does not modify, but when the data is zero, the frequency of the

carrier wave changes.

Following are the benefits or advantages of shift key modulation techniques.

First and foremost, it offers a high bandwidth efficiency higher than if we were using simple aim or

formulation.

The modulation can be used to transmit digital data over optical fiber and finally shift keying.

Modulation and demolition processes are comparatively inexpensive and easy to implement