Awesome.

Now let's move further and step into the world of digital career, as we already know when signals are

transmitted over long distances.

They get effected by noise and interference, and there are several methods invented for effective transmission

of signals over long distances without any error.

You see, the conversion of analog signals into digital form has brought a Game-Changing revolution

in the field of communication than modulation is used along with digital signals.

If so, of the many drawbacks of analog communication.

Now, unlike analog carrier that uses the high frequency sine wave, there are modulation techniques

where the carrier itself is digital, and this can be further divided into analog data and digital data.

When the carrier wave is digital and the data transmitted is analog, we use techniques such as post

amplitude modulation, pulse width modulation and post position modulation.

Now, you will probably never directly interact with digital personalization techniques, but they are

pervasive everywhere in modern life.

Modulation techniques are responsible for carrying information over long distances in everything from

basic radio applications to high speed networking over copper, fiber and air.

Furthermore, without a digital modulation techniques, we would all be stuck using a and FM radio for

wireless communication.

Do you think that Bluetooth or Wi-Fi of works or the basis of AM or FM the laser?

If you think they do well, you are wrong just so that you get an idea.

Let's take a brief look at the post amplitude modulation.

You see, both epidermal dilation is normally described as a purely analog modulation scheme, but this

is not exactly true in some ways.

Perceptual modulation is a fusion between digital, analog and pulse modulation schemes.

In a perceptible modulation, digital modulation is applied to an analog signal using amplitude shift

king.

This amplitude modulated analog signal is then used to modulate oppose train, and the post train is

sent down the channel.

So perceptual modulation is a modulation technique in which the amplitude of the poorest carrier signal

is changed according to the amplitude of the message signal.

Pretty similar to the Aboriginal immolation that we have seen in the previous courses.

But unlike a.m. here, the carrier wave is a pulse train rather than a continuous wave signal.

After modulation, we can notice that the amplitude of the pulses is wearing the with respect to the

instantaneous amplitude of the message signal.

Now, some of the applications of post amplitude modulation includes Ethernet communication.

PEM signals can be used in photo biology, but we can also use them as an electronic driver for LCD

lightning.

The close relative of pulse amplitude modulation is pulse with modulation, so PVM is an acronym used

for postfight modulation.

And if you have programmed Arduino or any sort of PI controllers, I'm sure you know what PVM is in

PVM.

The width of the pulses is varied according to the aptitude of the message signal.

Unlike pulse amplitude modulation in this technique, the amplitude of the signal is constant, and

only the fifth is wearing PVM.

Technique is similar to frequency modulation because by the variation of the width of the pulses, the

frequency of the pulses in the PBM signal shows variation and techniques are mostly used in telecommunications

for encoding purposes.

Also, post with modulation helps in voltage regulation and as a result finds its use in controlling

brightness in smart lightning systems and also controlling the speed of motors.

Great.

The last type of modulation technique is when we have a digital carrier, and the data transmitted is

also digital.

This is called us powerscourt modulation, and it's by far the most difficult modulation scheme to understand.

Digital personal deletion schemes are effectively the same as analog to digital conversion.

In fact, the same digital methods used to modulate an analog signal are used in ADC sampling.

Most prominent among these is power cord modulation, where an analog signal is represented by a set.

Of quantized digital poses in the time domain, an analog signal is sampled in the modulator and the

signal level at each sampling interval defines a pulse interval, as shown here.

Anyway, this is quite a complex topic and I really don't think it's necessary to get into.

But the main takeaway from this is that post quality mutilation is mainly used to change the signal

from analog to digital signal.

So that analog signal, which is changed, can be broadcasted throughout the digital communication network

and post coded modulation technique is mainly used in the satellite transmission systems and space communication.