In this course.

Let's keep the theory aside and let's try to build a simple circuit using a transistor so that at least

you get the feeling of how it works.

So in this course, we will be building a circuit that can turn an LED on and off using an NP transistor.

Since NPN transistors are a little bit easier to understand than PMP transistors and since they are

also more commonly found in electronic circuits, we will be focusing more on the transistor throughout

the next courses.

The transistor works like an electronic switch.

It can turn a current on and off.

A simple way to think about it is to look at the transistor as a relay without any moving parts.

A transistor is similar to a relay in a sense that you can use it to turn something on and off.

But a transistor can also be turned partly on, which is useful for building amplifiers.

And we will see how to use a transistor as an amplifier.

But for now, we want our transistor to act just like a simple switch.

Now, as we already know, a bipolar junction transistor has three legs.

It has a base, a collector and an emitter.

If you turn it on, the current can flow through it from the collector to the emitter.

And when it's off, no current can flow in the circuit.

We have a battery in series V four resistor, an LED and a transistor.

Since the base terminal of the transistor is not connected to anything, the transistor is off.

That means no current can flow through it.

So the LED is also off.

Now to turn the transistor on, you need a voltage of about 0.7 volts between the base and the emitter.

If you had a 0.7 volts battery, you could have connected it between the base and emitter as shown here

and the transistor would have turned on.

However, since most of us don't have a 0.7 volts battery, how do we turn on the transistor?

Easy.

The base to emitter part of a transistor.

And this is quite important for you to understand.

So the base diameter part of the transistor works just like a diode.

A diode, as we already know, has a forward voltage that it grabs from the available voltage.

If you add a resistor in series and you connect it to the battery, 0.0 volts will be dropped across

the base emitter part and the rest of the voltage drops across the resistor.

So you will automatically get around 0.7 volts by adding a resistor.

And this is the same principle you use to limit the current through an LED to make sure it doesn't blow

up.

If you also add a push button, you can control the transistor and thereby the led on and off with a

button.

Now I know a lot of things might be confusing for you, but don't worry, because as you progress,

everything will become more clearer.

And now let's try to build the same circuit in our simulator.

All right, in this circuit, we have a nine volts battery in series V for 330 ohm resistor and an LED.

This 330 resistor is used to limit the current flow through the LED so that when the transistor is turned

on so it conducts current, the LED won't burn out.

Now, the base terminal, as you can see, is not connected to anything.

So the transistor is off to turn a transistor on.

You need around 0.6 volts to be dropped across the base and emitter.

And why is that?

Because the base to emitter part of the transistor works just like a diode.

And we know how a diode works, right?

If not, please go back and check out the courses related to diodes.

So if it helps you imagine that between the base and emitter, there is a diode.

And we know that when current is passing through a diode, there will be a voltage drop across it called

the forward voltage drop.

Now this forward voltage drop between the base and emitter is usually around 0.60.0 volts for a common

bipolar junction transistor.

This implies that if we want to turn this transistor on, we have to connect the base to a positive

voltage that is at least higher than 0.6 volts.

So that 0.6 volts can be dropped across the base and emitter diode.

Now, question to you.

Could we just connect the base terminal of this transistor to these nine volts?

Power supply with a single wire.

Hmm.

Let's try it out.

And by the way, don't try this at home.

Why am I saying that?

Because notice that the simulator right now is complaining that the maximum current is exceeded.

So what?

They just happen?

Well, we created a nice short circuit.

Now that we have connected the base terminal directly to the nine volts power supply, we basically

shorted the battery.

Remember, that current is always following the path of least resistance.

And what is the path of least resistance?

Well, it's this one.

In fact, there is no resistance at all in this path except, well, the resistance of the wires, which

do not count.

So theoretically, an infinite amount of current is flowing from the battery through the base terminal,

through the base emitter, port and ground.

An ideal diode has no internal resistance.

So in our case, we need to connect a resistor in series with this base emitter diode.

If we don't want to burn this transistor out, and that's also the reason why we have a resistor in

series with this LED and LEDs as we know our diodes by nature.

So let's place a one kilo ohm resistor.

And as you can see, the circuit is now working just fine and the lead is glowing.

Now, you might be asking, what should be the value of this resistor?

Well, that depends on how much current you want to flow into the base of the transistor.

But I don't want to get into the rabbit hole right now at the beginning.

So let's keep things simple for the moment.

If I hover my mouse over the transistor in the bottom right corner, we can notice that the base emitter

voltage is around 0.6 volts.

Actually more like 0.7 volts.

Even though the base terminal was connected to the nine volts battery, the voltage drop across the

base and emitter will be always around 0.6 volts, which would be equivalent of a forward voltage drop

across the diode that is specified in its datasheet.

Now my question is, what is the voltage drop across this resistor?

Well, we can simply apply kickoffs voltage low in this loop and if you haven't seen the course is about

how to apply kickoffs rules, please check that chapter out.

So we choose a clockwise direction because the current also flows in a clockwise direction.

And so we can write down that the voltage of the battery minus the voltage drop across this resistor,

minus the voltage drop across the base, and ammeter is equal to zero.

So the base ammeter voltage is fixed at around 0.7 volts, which means that the rest of the voltage

is dropped across this resistor.

So nine volts -0.7 volts is equal to 8.3 volts, and indeed 8.3 volts is dropped across it.

And now that we know the voltage drop across this resistor, we can also find out the current flowing

into the base.

8.3 volts divided by one kilogram is equal to 8.3 milliamps.

So basically we can say that if we allow a small current to flow into the base, the transistor will

allow a much larger current to flow from the collector to the ammeter.

And if I however my mouse over the transistor again, we can see that the collector current is indeed

much greater than the base current.

The last thing I want to point out is that if you recall from the previous course, I said towards the

end that in an NPN transistor, the ammeter is the negative side of the transistor and the collector

and base are the positive sides.

Now, if you look here, the ammeter is grounded while both the base and collector are connected to

a positive voltage.

So that's what I meant by negative and positive sides.

The collector and base are more positive than the ammeter.

And now let's try to build the same circuit, but this time using a PMP transistor instead of an NPN

transistor.

I will see you next course.