Now that we have seen how an NPN transistor operates, let's take a quick look at how to rebuild the

circuit using a PMP transistor.

Before we get into that, I want to clarify a few things.

As we already know, an NPN transistor is turned on when an off current is supplied from the transistors

base to the emitter.

And as a result, the NPN transistors base has to be connected to a positive voltage and the emitter

to a negative voltage for the current flow into the base.

The arrow also gives you a visual help on what direction the current should take.

If we imagine that there is a diode between the base and emitter, then the anode of the diode is the

base terminal.

While the cathode is the emitter terminal.

Current always flows from the anode to the cathode and never the opposite direction.

So when an off current is flowing from the base into the emitter, the transistor switches on, allowing

a much greater current to flow from the collector to the emitter.

Now the PMP transistor works in the opposite.

In a PMP transistor, current normally flows from the transistors emitter to the base, and when enough

current flows from the emitter to the base, the transistor turns on, allowing a much greater color

to flow from the emitter to the collector.

Now to turn a PMP transistor on, there needs to be a voltage drop of about 0.6 volts across the emitter

and base.

In other words, if the emitter is 0.6 volts higher than the base terminal, the transistor will turn

on.

In this case, the anode of the diode is the emitter, while the cathode is the base.

So current will flow from the emitter to the base and not from the base to the emitter as it was in

the case for NPN transistors when current is passing through a diode.

There will be a forward voltage drop across it and for common PMP transistors, this is usually around

0.6 volts.

Again, if around 0.6 volt is dropped across the emitter and base, the transistor will turn on.

So let's see how this works out in our simulator.

All right, here we are.

Notice that I already connected the components except the base of the transistor.

The LED and the resistor are still connected to the collector as it was in the case with the NPN transistor.

But we had to rearrange things a little bit since current flows differently in a transistor.

Now that the arrow is pointing into the base, it means that current will flow from the emitter into

the base and never in the opposite direction.

Question to you should we connect the base terminal to the nine volts power supply or to the ground?

If we were to connect it to the nine volts line note is that nothing has changed and the PMP transistor

is still off.

And why is that?

Well, that's because the emitter and the base are the same voltage.

The ammeter is a nine volts and the bass is also at nine volts.

Since there is no voltage drop across these ammeter based diode, the transistor is off.

So what other options do we have?

Well, we could connect the base directly to the ground.

But if we do that, the simulator will complain that the maximum current is exceeded.

And why is that?

That's because we have just short circuited the battery.

Right now, theoretically, an infinite amount of current would flow in this path.

And if you were to physically build this circuit, the transistor would have blown up.

So make sure to limit the current that is flowing from the base terminal to the ground by adding a resistor

in Series V field.

And as you can see, the transistor has turned on and it conducts current from the emitter to the collector

powering up the led.

If I now how were my mouse over the transistor, we can notice that the base emitter voltage is -0.6

volts, so it's -0.6 volts.

Actually, if we round it up, it would be -0.7 volts.

And why is it negative?

That's because, as the name implies, we were measuring the voltage from the base to emitter and not

from the emitter to the base.

In this scenario, the emitter is the one that is higher with 0.7 volts and not the base as it was in

the case with NPN transistors.

The voltage on the base terminal referenced to ground is 8.3 volts and the voltage on the emitter again

referenced to ground is nine volts.

Now you can clearly see that there is a diode drop of about 0.7 volts across the emitter and base.

Now we could apply kickoffs voltage low in this loop and we choose a clockwise direction.

So we start from the battery.

Nine volts minus the voltage drop from ammeter to base, minus the voltage drop across this resistor

is equal to zero.

The voltage drop from ammeter to base is already known to be 0.7 volts.

So 8.3 volts, which is the rest will be dropped across this resistor.

And knowing that we can now calculate the current flowing from base to ground and that would be the

voltage drop across this resistor divided by its resistance and that would give us a current of 8.3

milliamps.

Now, we could also add a switch in series with this resistor.

And if you do so.

We are able to toggle the LED on and off.

You might be wondering why you would need or want to bother with a transistor in this circuit.

After all, couldn't you just put the switch in the LED circuit and do away with the transistor and

the second resistor?

Of course you could.

But that would defeat the principle that the circuit illustrates that a transistor allows you to use

a small current to control a much larger one.

If the entire purpose of the circuit is to turn an LCD on or off, by all means omit the transistor

and the extra resistor.

But in more advanced circuits, you will find plenty of cases than the output from one stage of a circuit

is very small and you need that tiny amount of current to switch on a much larger current.

In that case, this transistor circuit is just what you need, and we will see a couple of those examples

in the next course.


