One of the most fundamental applications of the transistor is using it to control the flow of power

to another part of the circuit.

Basically using it as an electric switch.

In the analog electronics world, transistor switches are used to switch on a high power load using

a small electric current.

For example, transistor switches can be used to switch and control lamps, relays or even motors.

In the digital world, they are used to make logic gates, which can go on to create microcontrollers,

microprocessors and other integrated circuits.

Since this course is centered around analog electronics, we will be discussing only how transistors

can be used in switching high power loads.

However, if you are curious about how to construct logic gates memories, the CPU and other cool stuff,

then check out my course called Crash Course Digital Electronics.

Now a transistor is an electrically controlled switch that has many advantages over normal physical

context, which is a physical switch is limited to the speed of your hand.

If the human hand can't switch switches faster than three hertz, the switching speed will be limited

to three hertz.

A physical switch has to states on and off either no voltage or the source voltage.

On the other hand, varying the base current of a transistor will cause the transistor to act not only

as a switch but also as a variable resistor.

And we will see how to do that in a later course.

The third advantage of a transistor is that a transistor can switch from zero hertz to around several

gigahertz, depending upon the type of transistor used, which means they are much, much faster than

a normal switch.

With reference to these transistors don't have any moving parts, so they are noiseless.

Unlike a traditional relay, for example, the fourth advantage is that when we are dealing with high

currents, a mechanical switch connected in a series with a high power load might cause irking.

Since the transistor does not break the circuit, you have no arc and therefore no damage to the device.

Also, eliminating the arc eliminates noise.

Mechanical switches also suffer from contact bounces.

And as a result, if your circuit requires a clean input signal, it won't get it because the contacts

will bounce and cause a ringing signal.

And lastly, transistors can be used in a variety of ways.

For example, pick it up with my controller and you've got next to infinite possibilities of using the

transistor as a switch.

A normal switch needs pressure to press it into place with a microcontroller transistor combination.

You can control it from claps to voice to any other strange, weird.

Whatever idea you cut, your imagination is the limit.

Now that we have gone through some of the advantages that the transistor can offer over a traditional

mechanical switch, let me present to you some circuits that can be built with a transistor working

as a switch.

For example, one way you could use a transistor is by connecting the base terminal to the high or digital

pin of a controller.

Arduino, for example, has several digital pins that can be used to output zero volts or five volts.

One of the main reasons why people use transistors in conjunction with a mac controller is because an

IO pin can only supply a relatively low amount of current.

If you look into the data sheet of the Arduino ono, you will notice that the IO pins can output up

to a maximum of 20 milliamps at a voltage of five volts.

That's 0.1 watts per pin, and that's certainly not enough for driving high power loads.

A high power load is just the umbrella term used to describe electrical components that require a high

amount of current to operate.

These can be high power LEDs, light bulbs, motors, etc. For example, a small DC motor is likely

to use more power than an Arduino digital output can handle directly.

If we try to connect the matter straight to an Arduino pin, there's a good chance that it could damage

the Arduino.

A small transistor like the PIN 2222 can be used as a switch that uses just a little current from the

Arduino digital output pin to control the much bigger current of the matter.

The transistor has three leads, and most of the electricity flows from the collector to the emitter.

But this will only happen if a small amount is flowing into the base connection.

The small current is supplied by the Arduino digital output.

As you can see here, the pin d three of the Arduino is connected to the resistor and just like when

using an LED.

This limits the current flowing into the transistor through the base.

Also notice that there is a diode connected across the connections of the mother.

As we already know, diodes only allow electricity to flow in one direction, which is a direction of

their arrow.

Then you turn the power off to a motor.

You get a negative spike of voltage that can damage your Arduino or the transistor.

And the diode protects against this by shorting out any such reverse current from the mother.

Now, let's take another example.

Let's imagine that you want to control a 230 volts light bulb powered by the electrical outlet using

an ordinary owner.

So the light bulb will run on 230 volts.

AC And we need to turn it on and off using a mac controller.

How would you do that?

Well, the base of the transistor will still be connected to an IO pin through a resistor, of course.

But where do we place the light bulb?

Could we attach it to the collector and connect the collector pin to 230 volts ac?

Of course not, unless you want to blow up your transistor.

For this reason, it's really common to use a relay in conjunction with a transistor.

For this exercise, we will be using a 12 volt relay, which only means that 12 volts is required on

the coil terminals in order to get it to close.

So when 12 volts is applied to the coil, the relay will pull in.

In other words, it will switch.

So let's see what the circuit would look like in our simulator.

All right.

As you can see, the base terminal is not connected to an actual controller pin.

So I'm just marking the behavior of an IO pin by simply connecting the base to a five watts power supply

through a switch.

Now we have a simple NTP transistor, a relay, a 12 watts power supply, a 230 volts, AC power supply

and a light bulb.

The purpose of this circuit is that then the imaginary microcontroller outputs five volts on an IO pin.

The transistor will turn on allowing current to flow from the 12 volt power supply down to ground,

and then current flows through this coil.

It will create a magnetic field.

That magnetic field, if strong enough, will attract this plate, causing it to switch.

And once the relay has switched, a connection is made between the 230 volts, power supply and the

light bulb, causing it to start glowing.

So if I hit the switch, the transistor has turned on, causing the relay to also switch.

The connection between the light bulb and the 230 volts AC is made and the light bulb is glowing and

it's completely separated from the main circuit.

This diet here has the same purpose as it had when I was showing the circuit with the motor when I turn

the transistor off.

So no more current flows through the coil.

A large negative spike of voltage is generated which can damage the transistor.

The negative voltage spike is produced by the energy stored in magnetic fields, so when current is

switched off, this energy has to go somewhere.

But where should it go?

Well, surely not through the transistor.

So when I hit the switch again, this energy will circle through the diode and the inductor until it

dies off.

And in this way, we successfully protected the transistor from blowing up.

The next circuit that we will look at is a fire warning circuit, which will make an LED to turn on

once the temperature in the room is too high.

One important component in the circuit of a heat operated switch is the third Mr..

The third Mr..

Is a type of resistor that responds depending upon the surrounding temperature.

Its resistance increases when the temperature is low and vice versa.

Then heat is applied to the third Mr..

Its resistance drops and the base current increases followed by a greater increase in the electric current

and the LED will turn on the circuit, as you can see, is already built.

So let's examine it in a little bit more detail.

You can notice right away that the base of this NPN transistor is connected to a voltage divider.

This voltage divided circuit is built by a third Mr. and a resistor using the slider on the right.

I can increase or decrease the ambient temperature and the thermostat will react to it by changing its

resistance.

So right now, the temperature that it's sensing is 25 degrees Celsius and at this temperature its resistance

is 600 ohms.

If I lower the temperature, its resistance increases, and the higher the temperature gets, the lower

its resistance.

Now, at room temperature, which is usually considered to be between 20 and 25 degrees Celsius, the

output of the voltage divider is 363 millivolts.

This is certainly not enough to turn on a transistor.

By the way, I do hope you know how to calculate the output voltage of a voltage divider.

This 363 millivolts can be easily calculated by applying the voltage divider equation.

Now as the temperature increases, the resistance of the thermostat decreases, which causes the output

of the voltage divider to increase.

So as the temperature increases, the base voltage increases as well.

And if the temperature is high enough, the base voltage will be high enough as well to turn the transistor

on, which will make the LED turn on as well.

This is awesome.

But the actual reason why I brought this circuit up is to show you how the current on the collector

changes with respect to the base voltage.

After all, how could we design a circuit with a transistor if we cannot calculate how much current

will flow through the collector and emitter?

So let me bring the temperature all the way down and let's see how the collector current changes with

respect to the voltage applied to the base terminal.

As I'm slowly increasing the base voltage, the collector current is slowly increasing as well.

It's almost like a linear relationship.

However, once the base voltage reaches around 500 millivolts from that point on with very little increase

in voltage, the electric current increases much more.

So it's no more a linear relationship.

The electric current increases exponentially compared to a little increase in base voltage.

The second interesting thing to note here is that after the base voltage reaches like 660 millivolts

from that point on, even if you increase the base voltage further, the electric current won't change

at all.

So it will get stuck at 9.7 milliamps and no increase in base voltage can modify that any more.

In the next course, we will start digging into how the voltages and currents in a transistor depend

on each other.

Like what's the relationship between the electric current and emitter current?

Or what's the relationship between the electric current and base current?

But to understand these things, we have to first talk about the different operating modes a transistor

can work in.