The next operation mode, the transistor can working is called the cut off mode.

Cut off mode is the opposite of saturation.

A transistor in cut off mode is off, so there is no electric current and therefore no emitter current.

It almost looks like an open circuit to get the transistor into cut off mode.

The base voltage must be less than both the emitter and collector voltages.

Well, at least this is what the textbook says.

In reality, the base emitted voltage can be anywhere between zero volts and the threshold voltage,

which is about 0.6 volt.

To achieve cut off mode, the circuit that we have here is very similar to the one that we had in the

previous course.

Except the base terminal is connected to a single pull double throw switch that is connected to a 3.3

world's power supply through a resistor and two ground respectively.

Then the base of the transistor is connected to the 3.3 volts power supply.

It works in the saturation mode, so the transistor is wide open and allows the maximum amount of color

to flow through the collector and emitter.

So when the transistor works in saturation, this collector emits resistance.

You can think of it in this way is the smallest value possible.

If the transistor would be an ideal component, this collector emitter resistance would be zero ohms.

However, since nothing is ideal in this world, there will still be a little tiny resistance here,

causing a tiny voltage drop across the collector and emitter.

And that value is 49.7 millivolts.

Now, if you want to place the transistor in cut off mode, the easiest way to do that is to ground

the base terminal.

So if I hit the switch, the base terminal is grounded and no more current flows through the transistor.

And why is that?

Because to turn on a transistor, you need a base voltage to be equal to or higher than a threshold

voltage of about 0.6 volts.

If I hover my mouse over the transistor, the simulator is telling us that indeed it's working in the

cut off mode.

As I mentioned before, the cutoff mode is the opposite of saturation.

If during saturation, this collector emits resistance was the smallest value possible.

Well, in cut off mode, this resistance is maximum.

This resistance is so high, in fact, that this transistor acts as an open circuit forbidding any current

to flow through it.

In the next course, we will talk about the third operation mode called Active Mode, which puts the

transistor somewhere between the cutoff and saturation mode.

So cutoff and saturation are the two extremes.

A transistor can work in, and the real magic starts when the transistor is biased to work between these

two operation modes.

I will see you next course.