Until now, we have seen how a transistor works in the cutoff and saturation mode when a transistor

is used as a switch in a circuit.

It's most likely that it will work in the saturation and cut off mode.

The real deal of transistors comes when they work in the active mode, which is a powerful mode that

turns the transistor into an amplifier.

This means that besides the switching functionality that we have seen during the previous courses,

transistors can also be used as amplifiers.

But what do they amplify though?

Well, AC signals in most cases.

However, to understand how a transistor can amplify small AC signals, first we have to understand

the relationship between the voltages and currents in the transistor working in the active mode.

Now, to place the transistor in the active mode, the collector voltage must be greater than the base

voltage and the base voltage must be greater than the ammeter voltage.

I also have to mention that this condition by itself is not enough to place the transistor in active

mode.

The base voltage must be higher than the emitter voltage indeed.

But if it's not higher than the emitter voltage with at least the threshold voltage of about 0.6 volts,

the transistor won't turn on.

So the base emitter voltage needs to be around 0.6 volts to place the transistor in active mode.

One important characteristic of a transistor that you must absolutely know about regardless of the operation

mode, is called the amplification factor.

Every bipolar junction transistor, regardless if it's working in saturation, cutoff or active mode,

has an amplification factor also called current gain and has the Greek symbol of beta, which is a constant

number that can be found in the transistor data sheet.

Now, why do we care about this amplification factor?

Because you see, when the transistor works in the active mode, the electric current is not equal to

the power supply voltage on the collector.

Divided by the collector resistance as it was in the case of saturation in the active mode.

The collector current is equal to beta times.

The base current.

The actual value of beta varies by transistor.

It's usually around 100, but can range from 50 to 200, even 2000, depending on which transistor you

are using and how much current is running through it.

If your transistor had a beta of 100, for example, that would mean an input.

Current of one milliamps into the base could produce a 100 milliamps current through the collector.

Now what about the emitter current in active mode, the collector and base currents go into the device

and the emitter current comes out to relate the emitter current to the collector current.

We have another constant value which is called Alpha.

Alpha is the common base current gain.

It relates to the current.

As such, the electric current is equal to alpha times, the emitter current.

Alpha is usually very close to but less than one.

This means that the collector current is very close to but less than the emitter current in active mode

and you can use beta to calculate alpha or vice versa.

So beta is equal to alpha divided by one minus alpha, for which alpha is equal to beta divided by beta

plus one.

So if beta is 100, for example, that means alpha is 0.99.

So if the collector current is 100 milliamps, for example, then the emitter current is 101 milliamps.

The circle that you see here is called a Common Ammeter amplifier, which is used to amplify small AC

signals.

More specifically, the small AC signal is fed into the base of the transistor and the amplified AC

signal is taken out from the collector.

We can notice that the input AC signal is 500 millivolts, and after amplification the AC signal has

a voltage of five volts.

This means that this particular circuit amplifies AC signals by a factor of ten.

And the reason why I brought this circuit up is to only show you that transistors working in active

mode are built specifically for this purpose to amplify AC signals.

However, a more detailed analysis on how to construct a circuit like this will be done in another course.

For now, let me remove the input AC signal and the output components that come with it.

And let's just examine the circuit from a DC standpoint.

First and foremost, if we hover the mouse over the transistor, the simulator is telling us that the

transistor currently works in the active mode.

If you recall, the condition that has to be satisfied for this operation mode is that the collector

voltage must be higher than the base voltage and the base voltage must be higher than the ammeter voltage.

If we look here, the collector voltage reference to ground is 10.2 volts and the base voltage is 1.5

volts.

So the first condition is mad.

The second condition is for the base voltage to be higher than the ammeter voltage.

And just as a tip, if you know the base voltage, you can deduce how much is the voltage on the emitter

by simply subtracting the base voltage with this base emitter diode job, which is usually called the

threshold voltage, right?

So 1.5 volts minus about 0.6 volts gives us an emitter voltage of 982 millivolts.

If we think logically the emitter voltage cannot be at zero volts as it was in the case for saturation,

because the emitter is not connected to ground directly, but it's connected through this resistor.

And if current is passing through a resistor, there needs to be a voltage drop across it.

So the second condition is met as well.

Now let's try to calculate some voltages and currents in the circuit without the help of the simulator.

First, let's figure out how to calculate the base voltage.

Well, that's quite easy, as we can see right away.

The base terminal of this transistor is connected to a voltage divider circuit.

This voltage divided circuit is formed by these two resistors, and the output of the voltage divider

can be found using this equation.

If we plug the values in, we get an output voltage of about 1.5 watts.

So 1.5 watts will be present on the base terminal.

If 1.5 volts is the voltage on the base, the emitted voltage will be one diode drop less.

So 1.5 volts minus the threshold voltage of about 0.6 volts, which gives us a voltage of 982 millivolts.

If 982 millivolts is dropped across this resistor, then we can go ahead and find out the ammeter current

which is calculated using simply Ohm's Law.

982 millivolts divided by one kilogram gives us a current of 982 micro amps.

Knowing the emitter current, we can go ahead and calculate the base current.

But how would you calculate the base current?

There are two ways to calculate that, but I will show you the one that is easier for you.

So here it goes.

When the transistor works in the active mode, the electric current is equal to beta times.

The base current.

We will see what's the beta of this transistor in a second.

And we also know that the electric current is equal to alpha times emitter current, where alpha is

equal to beta divided by beta plus one.

So we can rewrite the second equation as a function of beta.

So the electric current is equal to beta divided by beta plus one times the emitter current.

Now, based on the first equation, the electric current is equal to beta times, the base current.

This is what the textbook says when the transistor is in active mode.

So let's replace the collective current from the second equation as beta times based current.

The new equation will be then beta times based current is equal to beta divided by beta plus one times

emitter current.

And from this equation, the base current is equal to emitter current divided by beta plus one.

And now let's ask the big question what's the beta of this transistor?

As I mentioned, beta is the amplification factor that varies from transistor to transistor, and it

can range from 50 up to 2000.

But usually for common bipolar transistors, the beta is 100.

If we double click on the transistor, the first thing that will show up is the beta.

And here you can actually modify this value to whatever value you want.

But I will leave it as default, which is 100.

Knowing this value and plugging it into this equation, the base current becomes 982 milliamps divided

by 101, which is equal to 9.7 micrograms.

And indeed 9.7 micro amps is flowing into the base from this point on, calculating how much current

is flowing through the collector is a piece of cake collector.

Current is equal to beta times the base current, which only means that with a current gain of 100.

The collector current will be 100 times higher than the base current.

So 9.7 micro amps, actually 9.729 times 100 gives us a collector current of 972 microns.

Now notice something interesting here.

Even if I slightly change the value of this collector resistance, the collector current won't change

a bit.

And why is that?

Because if the transistor is biased to work in the active mode, it will force the collector current

to be always beta times the base current.

It will force it by changing this collector emitter resistance.

I was talking about in a way to keep the collector current constant.