Hello and welcome back.

In this course, we will learn how to buy us a transistor first, what is transistor biasing where transistor

biasing is the controlled amount of voltage and current that must be given to a transistor for it to

produce the desired amplification or switching effect?

I know this might sound confusing at first, but don't worry because it's not that hard at all.

In other words, transistors must be fed the correct or appropriate levels of wattages and or currence

to their various regions in order to function properly and amplify signals to the correct level.

These controls, the amount of voltage and or currents are fed to the different functions of the transistor

is transistor biase.

So without appropriate transistor biasing, the transistor may not function at all or amplify very poorly,

such as produce clipping of the signal or produce too low of gain.

Therefore, it's very important that the transistor is biased correctly for it to produce the intended

output effect.

And now let's take the simplest form of biasing, which is based.

Bias based bias is the simplest way to bias people as the transistor.

So how does it work?

Well, we have a firewall's matter here that provides the voltage and current to the base of the transistor.

The base is a 650 milliwatt and ammeter is at zero words.

Hence the transistor is turned on.

Right.

But if the battery is five words, why do we have here 650 million words?

By using the Akihiko voltage law, we will understand how wattages are allocated.

This is a closed loop, right?

So here we can apply Keiko's law, which states that the sum of all the voltage drops in a loop is equal

to zero.

Or to put it more easily, these five would need to be dropped somewhere on this, which is ground,

which is zero.

So first is dropped across this resistance and then is dropped across the diode, which is present between

the between the base and ammeter.

The voltage drop across a standard diode is always around zero point seven volts.

Well, in this case is 650 millions.

Hence, the remaining voltage needs to be dropped across this resistance.

So there will be a what is drapeau four point three volts across this resistance.

So the voltage drop across this resistance plus the voltage drop in between base and meter is fireboats.

Great.

Now, notice that the electric current is 100 times bigger than the base current.

But why is that?

That's because if we double click on the transistor, we will see that the beta is one hundred.

If you're not sure about the beat of your transistor, you can always measure it.

Yes, you heard it.

Well, almost herie multimeter nowadays can check the beat of a transistor in the previous course.

We have seen that the datasheet of an entire transistor, instead of mentioning a constant mehtar value,

it specified the range.

And that's because it is very hard for transistors to be produced with a precise bittar value during

the manufacturing process, and therefore manufacturers generally specify a range that may be within

the grid.

Now, the problem with the circuit is that the output current is highly dependent on the beat of the

transistor.

This is a very bad practice to rely on the beat of the transistor because Betacam vary with the temperature

collector voltage, etc. and instead we will buy the transistor in a different way so that we can actually

modify the overall current gain as we reach.

One popular technique used is a method called voltage divided by US.

Voltage divided by us is the most popular and used way to buy a transistor.

It uses a few transistors to make sure that voltage is divided and distributed into the transistor at

correct levels.

Why resistor the Šemeta resistor?

Ari also helps provide stability against variations in beta that may exist from transistors or transistor

for the circuit.

We are going to assume that the BETYE is equal to one hundred for the transistor and let's try to find

out the collector ammeter current.

I didn't mention and I'm sorry for that.

The electric current is always roughly equal to the emitter current.

So when we talk about electric current, we can safely assume that it's the same current flowing in

the emitter.

To also I want to mention that I have covered all these things in my previous course already and in

more detail.

I just wanted to cover it again to make sure that everyone understands how the transistor works.

Now, in order to calculate the emitter current first we need to know the base resistance.

The base resistance can be calculated using Tevanian Theorem.

According to the interim, these two resistors are in parallel.

So the total base resistance is a.

KMB, great, now let's calculate the base voltage using the voltage divider equation.

We will get the base voltage of 12 volts.

Now we can calculate the meter current using the following formula.

Using this equation, we get a current of nine point seventy four millions.

It's very important for you to understand that the Šemeta resistance provides stability in gain of the

ammeter current of a transistor circuit.

But what do I mean by that?

Well, transistors beta can vary by large amounts from transistor to transistor, even if they are the

same exact type from the same batch.

There is no way to replicate the same exact bittar across transistors.

And therefore, when we are designing transistors, circuits where we want roughly the same gain in

all of them, we must design them in a way that produces the same gain despite fluctuations in the beta

values.

Right.

And we do this by carefully choosing the Šemeta Resistance R.E., which provides stability against differences

in BITA.

If we look closely to the equation, we will notice that R is usually much larger than B divided by

beta plus one, which means that are essentially overrides it and allows for stability against these

fluctuations.

For this transistor, we assumed that the beta is equal to 100.

Right.

But let's say we have to swap out the transistor and the new transistor has a beta of one hundred and

fifty.

What will the new calculation be?

And will the output current of the transistors being largely in changes to the beta, or will it very

little or still be stable there?

Or is the transistor output current?

Doesn't very much, despite a large difference in the values of the transistors, even though there

is a difference of 50 of Beita in the transistors, there is less than a half of million per difference

in the output current.

If wanted an even larger value of our E can be used so that there is even more stability against the

beat of the transistors.

However, I realize that the larger R.E. is, the more gain that is lost for amplification in the circuit.

So there must be a balance in the design of the value of R.E..

Again, what is divided by us is the most popular and used way to buyers' production transistors.

The resistors have to give complete control over the voltage and current that each region receives in

the transistor and daym resistor or allows for stability of the gain of the transistor despite fluctuations

in the BITA values.