In the previous course, we examined a circuit where the load, which consists of this resistor and

the LSD, is switched on and off using a switch connected to the base of the transistor, while side

of the load is connected to a positive supply voltage.

And the other side is switched to ground by the ambient transistor speeds.

Now what if you want instead to ground one side of the load and switch the high side to a positive voltage?

Well, that was easy enough, but we had to use the other polarity or transistor, which is the pump

in this case, which if it's emitter at the positive rail and its connector tied to the loads high side.

The transistor is in cutoff mode when the base is held, the meter voltage here 15 whirls and switched

into saturation by bringing the base toward the collector like, in this case, towards ground.

When the input is brought to ground.

There's about four mg of base current to the 3.3 point base resistor, sufficient for switching loads

up to about 200 mg.

Question for you.

How much is a sum of the voltage drops from this point to ground?

So the first of all, these drop is between Ed and Bates, right, which is around six hundred seventy

five million dollars for this particular transistor, and the remaining voltage is dropped across this

resistor.

So the sum of these two, what it drops is 15 watts, the voltage drop, or, let's say, forward biasing

this diode is compulsory in order to turn the PMP transistor on.

An awkwardness of this circuit is the need to hoard the input 15 words to turn off the switch.

If we lower this voltage to, let's say, 12 volt, what do you think will happen?

Well, we just turned on the transistor because since there is three was difference between the base

voltage at that meter, that's enough to a forward bias these diode.

So the what drop across emitter and numbers is 0.6 volts and the remaining voltage drops across this

resistor.

So it's not really a good design to hold the base of 15 balls in order to keep the transistor off,

right.

It would be much better to use a lower control voltage, for example, three bolts and ground, which

is commonly available in digital logic.

This circuit shows exactly how to do that and begins to reach Q2.

Except the logic level input of zero volts or three words pulling it correctly lowered to ground accordingly.

Then this transistor is in cutoff mode are three holes Q three off?

And how does it do that?

Well, it does that by bringing 15 volts to the base of your tree.

So the voltage difference between emitter and bass is zero.

The diode is not forward biased, which means the Q3 acts like an open circuit.

It's like the emitter of Hue Tree is disconnected from the collector.

Now, when the NBN transistor is saturated by a three watts input or two things, B is current from

Q3 to bring it into saturation.

The divider formed by our two and three, which is not even a divider in this case, may be confusing

arteries.

Job is to keep Q3 off when the NBN transistor is off and van to pause its collector law.

Most of it's clear to current comes from the base of the PMP transistor.

Look here, the current that flows on the collector of the Q2 is 4.3 million, right?

And this 4.3 million arms comes from summing up Q3 based current, which is three point six million

with zero point six million arms.

Interesting, right?

How come most of the current comes from the PMP transistor days and not from here?

Well, that's because if you hook the work meter between the meter and the base of this Q3, we will

measure the forward voltage drop of desired right since our tree is in parallel with this branch.

The voltage must be the same, right, because they are in parallel.

Now using ohms law and dividing 0.6 walls with one guitar home, we will get the current or $0.6 amps

or 673 micrograms.

All right.

I hope you understood, if not, just leave a comment with your question below, and I will get back

to you as soon as possible, so all three does not have much effect on the Q Three's saturation.

In any case, the value of R3 three is not critical and could be made larger.

The trade off is a slower turn off of Q3 owing to capacity effects.