Hello and welcome back.

Before we get into the explanation of this circuit, I want to tell you in advance that we are going

to deal with ActionScript.

Now, if you don't remember what our time constant is.

Please go back to the chapter where we talked about all these circuits because otherwise it might be

difficult for you to understand the circuit.

I will try, though, to summarize it as shortly as possible.

In case you don't have time to revise it.

All right, here we are.

So the time required to charge a capacitor to about 63 percent of the maximum voltage in an article

which is called the time cost end of the circuit time constants can be defined using the following formula

where time in seconds is equal to resistance in ohms times capacitance, which is in Ferrer's five time

constant periods, are required to fully charge or discharge a capacitor.

Let's take an example to understand it better.

In this figure, a nasty circuit is drawn and a time constant is computed.

The circuit has a time constant of one second.

So which means that five seconds are required for these capacitor to become fully charged, right?

So this means that this capacitor will charge to about 63 volts in one second.

And at the end of five seconds, the capacitor will be charged to about 100 volts.

All right.

I hope this explanation will help you to understand the following circuit.

The aim of this circuit is to generate applause, which is nothing but a rectangular signal in the circuit.

There are two signals that we are interested in.

The first one is the signal on the base of Q2, which can be seen here.

And the second one is the output signal, which can be visualized here by including a simple RC.

You can make a circuit that gives a pulse output from a step input.

The time constant, which is RC, determines the with Q2 is normally held in adoration by three.

So its output is close to ground.

Note that all three is chosen small enough to ensure Q2 separation.

With the circuits to the ground, Q1 is in cutoff mode, right?

With its collector Earth five volts.

The capacitor C1 is therefore charged with plus firewalls on its left terminal and APR plus zero point

six volts on its right terminal.

So this means that it has about four point forwards across it.

Right now, the circuit is waiting for something to happen.

A +5 all positive input step brings Q1 into saturation, forcing its collector to ground because of

the voltage across C1.

This brings the base of CU to momentarily negative to about minus 4.3 volts.

Please note that the speed of the simulation is brought really low so that things slow down a little

bit here and we are able to observe the values in the circuit now because the base voltage is negative.

This transistor is in cut off mode, right?

Which means that no current flows through our four and so its output jobs to five volts.

This is just the beginning of the Aliquippa's.

Now see, one can't hold these transistors base below ground forever, right?

Because current is flowing down through all three trying to pull it up.

So the right hand side of the capacitor charge is the word fireball's before time constant, which is

equal two or three times.

See one here, equal to 100 microseconds.

The output with is said by this time constant, and to figure out the post with accurately, you have

to look in detail at the secret operation.

In this case, it's easy enough to see that the output transistor Q2 will turn on again, terminating

the output pulse.

Then the rising voltage on the base or transistor Q2 reaches the base emitter voltage drop off 0.6 volts,

which is required for the transistor to turn on.