In the previous course, we talked about the circuit where a step input produces a rectangular pools

who is with can be set by.

These are the time constant which is equal to the product of this resistance and these capacitance.

I made a mistake saying that the time consent of this RC pair is 100 microseconds, which is wrong because

it's zero 0.1 seconds or 100 milliseconds.

So what does this 100 millisecond means?

It means that the on the state of this pause will last for around 100 milliseconds.

If you want the longer pause, just increase the value of one of the components or both.

Now this circuit works just fine, but there is only one problem where you want to produce a pulse of

the output.

And if you accidentally pull yuan's base to ground before the pause is done, we can observe that the

pause will go to ground earlier than it should.

It would be nice to eliminate this restriction and the next year it will just resolve this little inconvenience.

To the original circuit, we've added a third transistors, which which is Q three, whose job is to

hold the cue was collected at the ground.

Once the output pause begins, regardless of what the input signal does.

So let's see how it works.

First, let's see if it's here can generate one simple pulse.

All right.

Everything works and the polls is generated now, I will slow down the simulation time and let's do

the simulation again, but this time I will press the button down to ground before the polls is terminated.

Before I press the button note is that the left part of this capacitor is more positive than the right

part of it.

So obviously there's a voltage drop across this capacitor, which is around four point four words.

The capacitor is fully charged right and all of the charge has to go somewhere and where we go.

Since it was charged from this direction, it will discharge the opposite direction, right?

We learned that when we talked about the capacitors.

So this time it will discharge through Q1 or Q3, and the charge will go down to ground.

While this capacitor is discharging the right side of the capacitor has negative voltage, keeping Q2

off in a short time, which depends on the time constant of this RC, the voltage will rise back to

641 milliwatts.

All right.

Here we are.

The porter started and I will poke Yuan's bass back down to ground, even though Q1 one is in cutoff

mode.

The output is keeping Q3 saturation, so the capacitor has a path to this charge.

Now, any positive input pulls, whether longer or shorter than the desired output pulse, which produces

the same output both with.