Hello and welcome back for our final act.

Let's fix a deficiency of the circuit, namely a tendency for the outward powers to turn off somewhat

slowly to understand what's the problem?

Let us inspect the powers that we are able to generate.

OK?

The policy generated, and I will stop the simulation.

Now notice that the pool is turned off kind of slowly.

It is not that abrupt lag to turn on, right?

So this is a problem that we are going to solve, and we will try to somehow design a circuit that we

had this turn off face to be much quicker and steeper before we start designing a circuit.

Let's understand why our powers have such a slow turn off.

Let's generate reports again and see what happens on the base of Q2.

So basically, the problem happens because kids use base voltage, which if it's literally 100 millisecond

after time constant arises smoothly and relatively slowly until it reaches the turn on voltage threshold

of point 0.6 volt, at which point these cute you start conducting pulling the collector to ground.

Now you have to understand the transistors are designed in a way so that when the voltage hits exactly

600 volts, the transistor fully conducts.

That's not true.

And I will show you how it works.

Let's have a look at this transistor, which is a general purpose ambient transistor.

This is a small signal transistor so that it can handle only low current and relatively low voltages.

This table here shows the maximum readings that you have to obey in order to not blow up the transistor.

So we have maximum collector meter voltage collector base voltage meter based voltage maximum continuous

collector current, which is only two hundred millions.

You can most probably handle bigger currents, but only for a short amount of time.

What we are really interested in here is the graph that shows basically how the transistor conducts.

There should be a graph which shows the base emitter voltage versus the electric current.

Note that there are two groups here graphs.

Sorry that I advise you to look at, especially when you are choosing a transistor for a particular

circuit.

OK, so this is a graph and look here the transistor starts conducting, then the base meter voltage

reaches around 600 million volts and the greater current is only one million amps.

So the transistor is barely turned on right?

And as you increase the base, emit a voltage.

The greater current starts increasing quickly.

The maximum current you can see here as well is 209 amps.

So this means that the transistor is turned on and off to handle these two handed mediums on its collector,

but only if the base emitter voltage is one world.

Now, this doesn't mean that if there is one wasn't the base, the current that will flow, and the

collector is strictly two hundred millions.

It means that if the base emitter voltage is one volt, the transistor is turned on and off to handle

200 mg, but it can flow any current from zero up to 200 million.

OK, this current can vary depending on the resistor on the collector or emitter in case there is a

resistor on the emitter.

So I hope now you understand why this low turn off occurs, this voltage on the base should basically

rise much quicker in order to avoid these slow transition from cutoff mode to fully turned on transistor,

which is called saturation mode.

Not by the way, that this problem does not occur at the turn on of the other pulse.

Because that transition could use base voltage drops abruptly down to approximately minus four point

four worlds owing to the sharp input step waveform, which is further sharpened by the switching action

of Q1.

The care here is to add to the output, a clever circuit known as the Schmidt Trigger notice that the

output of our original circuit is the input of this new circuit that is called the trigger.

And in order to analyze how this circuit works, I think it's better to get rid of this part of the

circuit.

So I removed the original circuit, and we will try to reproduce the pools using this, which obviously

we can't clearly reproduce the pools because in this case, the turn off will be very fast.

So probably it will be harder to understand, but still, it shouldn't cost too much problem.

The first cop shows the input pulls and the next cop shows the output pulls.

As you can see, I did the work meter here that measures the voltage drop across.

These are nine.

If you understand what this voltage drop across, this ah, nine means for the circuit.

You will for sure understand how this circuit works.

Thus, you can see both emitters are tied together.

So the voltage drop across or nine is the emitter voltage, which is the same for both transistors.

So it was like this.

Imagine a time if you've seen the positive output outputs of the previous circuit.

So the inputs to this new Schmidt circuit is high, and that holds true for deceleration.

And so Q5 is in cutoff mode with the output at five oils.

The emitter current of Q4 is about five millionth.

So the emitter voltage is approximately 100 Millwall's.

That's because if you multiply these five mediums with 20 ohms, you will get a voltage drop of 100

million.

That's right.

Hmm.

Does this 100 milliwatts effect us?

Since the emitter voltage of Q4 is at 100 million volts and on the ground the base voltage.

Not the base emitter voltage.

I'm talking about the base voltage compared to ground rose to $738 watts.

Remember that this value was usually around $640 watts, right?

But now it's seven hundred thirty eight maybe volts.

And that's because this time the transistor needs more voltage on the base to turn on.

It needs more of, if exactly 100 milliwatts.

The base meter voltage of Q4 should still be around six hundred forty million volts, and let's see.

Yes, it's still approximately six hundred thirty eight million miles.

So if you made the difference between $738 volts and 100 milliwatts, you will get around six hundred

thirty eight milli volts in the previous circuit.

This value was indeed around six hundred forty milli volts.

But the emitter of the transistor was grounded, which means it was at zero volt potential.

Now, imagine the trailing edge of the input pulse waveform, whose voltage smoothly drops toward the

ground as it drops below 740 Millarworld Q4 begins to turn off so its collector voltage rises.

If this were a simple transistor switch, the collector would rise to worlds here.

How are the quake resistor are stable and instead supplies current to Q5, putting it in saturation?

So Q5 Collector drops nearly to ground.

The simple level of analyses, the secret appears to be pretty useless because its output is the same

as its input.

Let's look a little closer, though, as the input voltage drops to the $738 vote threshold and Q five

10 as on the total emitter, current rises to 10 mg five mg from Kufa is correct or current, and another

five mg from its base current, both of which flow out the emitter.

The drop across the emitter register is now 200 million volts, which means that the input threshold

of Q4 has increased to about $838 volts.

So the input voltage, which had just dropped below $738 volts, now finds itself well below the new

threshold, right, causing the output to switch abruptly.

This regenerative action is how the Schmidt trigger turns a slowly moving waveform into an abrupt transition.

As for our final act, let's see if this is really solve our problem.

Let's generate the policy and see the output.

Yes, as you can see, the turn off is the same as a turn on.

So congratulations.

We just finished our pulse generator circuit.