Hello.

In this course, we will be discussing about a very important piece of electronics circuit, which is

called us amateur follower.

What do we see here?

We see a signal generator which produces a firewalled sine wave with a frequency of 40 hertz.

We have a NPRM transistor and a resistor on the emitter, which is used to limit the current and the

transistor is turned on.

So we don't make a short between the thin world power supply and ground, right?

It is called the Scimitar follower because the output terminal is the emitter and not the collector.

And this output terminal follows the input signal, which is a signal on the base.

But the output signal is less than the input signal.

If one diode drop, which as we already know, it's around zero point six or seven would.

So the output is a replica of the input, but the 0.6 to 0.7 or less positive.

The first cup represents the input signal from the signal generator, and the next call up represents

the output signal.

Let's start the simulation and notice that the output signal contains only the positive part of the

input sign me right?

Why do you think?

Is that so?

Our sine wave is actually towards peak to peak.

So it goes up to positive firewalls, and after that it goes down to minus firewalls.

You can see here as well that the color on the base is green, the voltage is positive and when it's

read the work, it is negative.

The wattage of the output signal is 4.3 volts, because as we said, there's a dire draw between the

base and the meter.

Unfortunately, the circuit has a deficiency and that is the output signal cannot go more negative than

zero world because zero world, which is the ground, is the lowest point in the circuit.

In this case, our output signal very only between these two limits, which is zero volt and then watts.

So what can we do to solve this problem?

Well, there are two possibilities.

One possible solution is to add a biasing network for the transistor, which classes from these two

resistors, which, after all, form a voltage divider, right?

Since the value of these two resistors are equal, the output voltage of this voltage divider is about

the half of the power supply to be more exact.

It's 4.6 Walt.

If the base voltage is a four point six volt, the emitter voltage will be one day a drop less.

So 4.6 volt minus around 0.7 world is 3.9 volts.

This means that even if the signal generator is taken out, there will be always a positive voltage

on the base, which keeps the transistor in conduction mode, right?

So why is this good for us?

Well, we basically add together two different signals.

We add the easy signal, which is our sine wave.

We have the DC signal.

This will rise the AC voltage automatically to three point nine wolf.

So the easy signal will start its journey up and down from this point and on the ground, like in the

previous circuit.

And this is exactly what we wanted to be able to transmit our signal from one point to another without

any loss of information.

I forgot to mention that this capacitor here is a blocking capacitor, so it allows only the signal

of interest to enter the circuit.

In this case, the signal of interest is the sine wave, while any DC signal is blocked.

The other possible solution, which is also widely used, is to add to the emitter a negative power

supply.

Now the output signal can have any voltage between these two values minus 10 volts and plus 10 volts.

This allows us to transfer the sine wave, which can represent an audio signal or whatever information

from the base to the emitters, as that's fully.

At first glance, this circuit may appear quite thoroughly useless until you realize that the input

impedance is much larger than the output impedance.

This means that the circuit requires less power from the signal source to drive a given load than it

would be the case if the single source were to drive the low directly.

Or a signal of some internal impedance can now drive a load of comparable or even lower impedance without

loss of amplitude from the usual voltage divider effect.

In other words, a net meter follower has current gain, even though it has no voltage gain, it has

power gain.

Wattage gain isn't everything.

In the last course, we will be discussing about this important output impedance.

So you will understand why I said that a signal that has some internal impedance cannot drive a load

of comparable or even lower impedance without loss of amplitude.

So don't forget that all these signal generators in real world have some internal impedance, OK?

In the simulator.

It can be perfectly represented hooking a registering series with the signal generator.

The output impedance of a single generator is small, and you have to take this value in consideration,

especially when you connect this part of the circuit to another circuit.

And we will see why in the next course.