Every secret that you want to connect together has an input and an output impedance.

The output impedance of four circuits can be represented as a result in series with the output.

And an input impedance can be represented as a resistor situated at the input or the entrance of the

circuit tied to ground.

If this is the circuit that generates a sign V, for example, and you want to feed that signal into

this circuit, then you want to make sure that the signal that is being generated doesn't lose from

its amplitude.

Then the signal enters the circuit.

You might ask yourself, why would the signal generated here would lose from its amplitude when the

signal enters the circuit?

Do you observe anything familiar here?

If you look carefully, you will notice a voltage divider formed by the output impedance of the circuit.

And by the input impedance of the other circuit.

The equation of the voltage divider is the following and based on the voltage divider effect, not what.

The impedance should be very low compared to the input impedance.

In order for the signal to keep its amplitude.

For example, if the sine wave generated by a source has an MP 2.5, would the output impedance of the

circuit is 20 ohm and the input impedance of the other circuit is 500 ohm.

Then the resultant voltage will be four point eight walls.

So this means that we lose $200 volts of the signal right at the entrance of the circuit, which is

not good.

In this case, there are two options either lower the output impedance of the signal generator circuit

or increase the input impedance of the circuit.

Remember that an ideal signal generator or power supply has zero ohm output impedance.

And I guess I don't have to explain it.

Why now?

If you are curious about how to measure this input and output impedance, check out the course that

you can find in Chapter seven.

So what you have to remember until now is that in general, the loading effect of the following stage,

it causes a reduction of signal.

And for this reason, it is usually best to keep the output impedance much, much smaller than the input

impedance.

And then meter followers circuit is famous because they put the opinions of the circuit is much larger

than the output impedance.

And this means that with very little current, you can control a much larger current flowing from the

collector to a meter and then the load the semi.

The follower is often called the buffer, which is meant to provide current amplification and not voltage

amplification.

Apart from this, you know, Tony, you will hear many times that a pin of an integrated circuit or

the input of something has a very high impedance.

And this is great because it means that you can feed that particular input pin with a signal that is

leaking current so you don't have to supply any big current from the source in order to drive that pin.

High impedance inputs are preferred on measuring instruments such as volt meters or oscilloscope, because

when you are measuring something you don't want to steer current from the circuit that you are measuring,

right?

And even if you do, you want to take just a very little current in order to not disturb the circuit.

The last case, it's when the input impedance is equal to the output impedance.

This is also widely used, especially in radio frequency circuits, where the engineers try to match

the impedance is in electronics and communication circuits.

It is quite common to match output the appearance of one circuit or stage with input impedance of next

stage to achieve maximum power transfer.

For example, the output impedance of an audio amplifier is matched with the impedance of a speaker

through a transformer.

Likewise, impedance of antenna is matched with characteristic impedance of connecting cable to achieve

maximum signal transfer.