Hello and welcome to the course where we find out how to build an emitter followers circuit.

This is an important course and we will have a relatively high volume of mafia involved.

But don't be scared, it's nothing complex.

The reason why we will do all these calculations is because this is a very popular circuit.

And the reason of that is because it's very useful.

On the other hand, knowing how to calculate these components will help you understand better how transistors

work, which is crucial for someone who is passionate about electronics.

Even if you won't find this exact circuit in your application, you will stumble upon a transistor as

many, many times.

And by understanding the purpose of these components and understanding how to calculate them, it will

be easier for you to analyze other circuits, whereas transistors are involved.

So this is our circuit, and we will now get into the details of why the various components in the circuit

are needed and how to choose the values for them.

As you can see, the starting value of all the components, including power supply, is one I just had

to give them a value for the beginning, but we will change all these values as we progress.

All right.

So what's the first thing we should do?

The first thing is we decide how much wattage we are going to supply for the circuit.

This is the voltage applied to the collector of the transistor.

And you can really choose any value from above the base voltage to the maximum value that the transistor

can handle on the collector.

This is the epically 40 to 60 volts on most transistors.

But for our circuit, we will choose a reasonable voltage value of 12.

So this is the first consideration now that we know the power supply voltage, which is we see we bias

the base voltage of the circuit, which means that we select the voltage that we want to fall across

the base of the transistor.

What value do we want across the base to be able to ask for this?

We have to look at the complete picture.

The amount of AC voltage that can be present to the output of the transistor is dependent on the DC

voltage range that the circuit has.

So this means that on one end of the spectrum, the transistor can swing up to 12 volts, which is basically

right.

And on the other end of the spectrum, the transistor can swing down to near ground about 0.7 volt.

The reason the transistor cannot swing fully to ground is because the transistor will not turn on unless

the diode is switched on, and that happens at about 0.7 volts.

Therefore, 0.7 volt is the floor of the circuit, and another ground or zero would therefore be for

power supply of 12 volt and a ground of 0.7 volts.

The transistor can swing from zero point seven up to 12 points.

Why this matters in regards to the voltage that we supply to the base is that whatever voltage comes

into the circuit has a flaw of zero point seven and the ceiling of two avoids.

Therefore, we want to bias the base voltage so that it falls in between these values, right?

This gives a maximum peak to peak excursion for the signal and gives it the most room to operate without

keeping even the base wattage is biased incorrectly or well off the midway.

The transistor have can have significant clipping that produces poor output.

For a 12 or sealing and 0.7 wards floor, the median value would be six point thirty five watts.

If you have to take the dial voltage drop into consideration because the value of the base is 0.7 watts

higher than the output.

So by biasing the base voltage right in the middle of the ceiling and floor, it allows for maximum

swing of the signal called the maximum peak to peak excursion.

Then by a single transistor circuit that deals with 80 signals, the easy signal that will appear or

that can appear the output without clipping is equivalent to the DC biasing.

The easy signal will only be able to swing as far as the DC voltage biasing allows it.

If the power supply is 20 volts and the floor is 0.7 watts, the transistor can swing from a peak value

of 20 volts to a floor of 0.7 watts.

So positioning the transistor at the midpoint of those voltages allows for the maximum swing of the

easy signal from the ceiling to the floor.

This is the optimum DC operating point for the circuit called the Q Point or Question Point.

If you select a this year value or too low, you will, because the signal to clip earlier at the bottom

of the waveform, if you choose are these you operating what is too high, you will cause the signal

to clip at the top of the waveform.

So based on this point, we want the voltage of the base to be midway between 12 volts, which is the

supply voltage 0.7 volts, which represents the floor, so that's the base voltage, which is six point

thirty five volts.

So in order to get this voltage, we have to choose our resistors that allows for this voltage to appear

at the base.

The voltage of the base is biased through two resistors.

The resistors form voltage divider and divide the supply voltage.

We can divide our supply voltage into any voltage less than the power supply by choosing the correct

value resistors.

The base voltage is equal to which is three times or two divided by R1 plus R2.

This is nothing else but the voltage divider equation.

In order to solve this equation, we choose the value of one the resistor and then based on that resistor

value compute the value of the other resistor based on this formula.

So for the R2 to register a value of one kilogram is chosen as a reference point for the other ED doing

the math.

This computes to a value of one point one kilogram.

So in order to get the value of six point thirty five watts debates, the values of the resistors are

R1 equal to one point one kilo and are two equal to one column.

Next, we have to decide the value of the R, these are the values that we choose is integral so that

we do not overheat and possibly destroy the transistor.

How we choose Ari is based on the value of the current current that is safe to flow through the transistor.

So we will choose a range that is safe current that can flow through the transistor that one burned

out.

A safe current is 10 mg.

That is a decent amount of current and one that will not burn all the transistor.

So the to register is equal to the emitter voltage divided by the emitter current, to calculate the

diameter voltage, we just have two degrees a diode drop from the base voltage, so six point thirty

five volts minus 0.7 words is equal to five point sixty five volts.

So the only difference in voltage between the base voltage and emitter voltage is the diode voltage

drop between the two junctions.

Because the transistor has a diode in it, from the base to the emitter, the transistor has an internal

voltage drop.

Therefore, the emitter voltage is equal to the base voltage minus the voltage drop across the diode.

Now that we know the meter of voltage and the emitter current, we can't calculate the meter resistance

based on ohms law dividing diameter voltage with the emitter current.

We will get a resistance of five hundred sixty five ohms.

So in our era, this register of about 500 ohms would suffice well for the circuit.

I just noticed that I made a little mistake here, and I apologize for that.

We wanted a base voltage of six point thirty five woods, right, because that's the middle point of

the ceiling, which is 12 walls and floor, which is 0.7 volts.

We want to set the base voltage exactly in the middle so that the input AC voltage we have the maximum

excursion, which means it will have the maximum swing or the output.

So to increase the base voltage, which is currently 5.7 volts, we have to change the values of the

two resistors based on the voltage divide the regulation.

Let's give this a value of one kilo.

And for this, let's increase its value from one kilogram to 1.2 million.

All right.

This will make it.