Now, Leslie, we have to choose the value of the capacitors in the circuit, both capacitors have the

same function.

They allow only the AC signal to pass through and block the DC from passing through.

So they function as Kopplin capacitors.

We will first show how to calculate the value of the capacitor, the input.

In order to correctly choose an appropriate value of the capacitor, you have to take many things into

account, which we allow these costs.

One, we have to decide the cut off frequency of the circuit.

This is the frequency that we want filtered out.

If you are dealing with four sound signals, for example, the frequency range that is audible to humans

is 20 hertz to 20000 hertz.

So we want only the audio signals passed through 20 hertz is a good off request to choose.

This means that any frequency of the range or lower will be filtered out to ground, so we choose 20

hertz as the cutoff frequency.

And if you take 20 hertz and apply it to angular frequency, we get an angular frequency of 120 five

seconds.

The power of minus one.

This is one part of the equation.

The next thing we must consider is the value of the resistance that the capacitor sees the first part

of this circuit from the capacitor and the resistor that it sees down to ground forms a high-pitched

filter, an RC high pass filter and RC High best filter is a liquid composed of a capacitor before resistor

connected to ground.

If you visualize Coron flowing into the circuit, current can go either one or three ways.

Current can go through the capacitor and through the R to register and down to ground.

Current can go through the capacitor and through the R wall resistor or karoon cashflow through the

transistor.

Now flow through the R e resistor down to ground.

It may seem strange that current can flow through the R y resistor, but ACS ignores CDs high voltage

levels of the ground as well.

So even though it's to the DC level of 12 volts to AC signals, it can also be a ground.

And this is why this can be a path down to ground as well.

So these are the three ways that current airflow in the circuit, even though current can take those

paths.

It's ultimately what a capacitor sees that determines the real resistance that it encounters.

So we will talk about these now.

Resistors R1 and R2 are in parallel.

And the reason of that is the easy signal sees the DC power supply as ground as well.

Therefore, the capacitor sees the equivalent resistance of these two parallel resistors, so the capacitor

sees the one kilogram in parallel with the one point two km.

These are the equivalent resistance of these resistors is roughly 500 homes.

So this is the resistance that the kappa sources at one pathway.

The other pathway is when the current goes through the transistor and through resistor Ori.

This resistance will be behtar times r e.

We've beta equal to about 100 doing this math.

This resistance computes to 50 kilo.

Remember that current always takes the path of least resistance, so between the options of 500 ohm

or 56kg current, we obviously take the $500 pathway.

So five hundred armies, the Cubans resistance that the RC High Pass Filter Network sees.

And we know that we want to cut off frequency of twenty hertz and calculating the annual frequency for

twenty hertz gives us an angular frequency of one hundred twenty five seconds of the power of minus

one.

So going to the equation, which is our equivalent times, see one equal to one times 125 seconds of

the power of minus one.

This would be equal to 500 times a C one, which is equal to zero point zero zero eight seconds.

Now doing the math this computes into a c one value of sixteen microphones.

So the first capacitor is 16 microphones.

Now we move on to the second capacitor and it's chosen similarly to the first capacitor.

We want the second capacitor to react similar to the first in regard to the frequency that we are dealing

with.

This is because the same frequency signal that is input is output too, right?

So you want to measure the frequency response for both capacitors to the same frequency.

So for the output capacitor, we also calculated according to its 20 hertz frequency response computing,

the angular frequency, we again get an equal effect mass of one hundred twenty five seconds.

The power of minus one.

We use the same formula again, which is our equivalent times CO2 equal to one divided by one hundred

twenty five seconds of the power of minus one.

Now what is our equivalent?

In his case, our equivalent is the resistance that the output capacitor sees in the circuit.

Looking from the capacitor back to the input side, the capacitor sees the resistance of R1 in parallel

with R2.

And the result is divided by the beta.

The result of this equation is five ohms.

So the output capacitor sees an equivalent resistance of five ohm looking back to the input of the circuit.

So plugging these values into the equation, which is our equivalent times CO2 equal to one divided

by one hundred twenty five seconds of the power of minus one.

This would be equal to five times the CO2, which is equal to zero point zero zero eight seconds.

Now solving for CO2, we get capacitance of one hundred sixty micro ferrets, so this is the value of

the output capacitor.

Congratulations.

Now we've sold for all the values of the components and the circuit.

You can see basically the calculations that the secret is a how you put the impetus and the low output

impedance, as we calculated, the input impedance is at times Ori, which we calculated to be 50kg.

The output impedance is all one imperative or two.

The result is divided by beta.

This would be equal to five ohms.

So you can see how the circuit has a high impedance and low output impedance, so it functions very

well as a buffer.

This circuit can be added to wattage light that needs to be buffered, which allows or the voltage to

be transferred over while giving out a low impedance output so that a load can be powered.

Know that this is a basic buffer circuit.

It is not as accurate as an extra buffer.

Cheap for one buffer chip has greater impedance, lower output impedance for another.

It's completely accurate voltage power circuit being that the transistor has an internal diode that

has a voltage drop roughly equivalent to 0.7 volts, so it loses this voltage of the output.

So the output signal is 0.7 was lower than the signal.

You can see it's not completely awarded, far lower.

However, for all basic purposes, it functions very well as low precision buffer.

All right.

Let's check if our circuit is actually working, remember that the base voltage is exactly in the middle

of the ceiling, which is the power supply and floor, which is 0.7 woods.

So the Doppler signal can have the maximum excursion if 6.5 volts is the middle point.

It means that if you have a sine wave of five point five woods big amplitude, or we can see 11 volts

peak to peak, then the sun on the base should swing from six point five watts up to 12 hours, and

after that, down to zero point seven woods.

I will start the simulation and let's see how the output signal looks like in the oscilloscope.

Alright, design, they look just fine.

The note is that there are no clippings on either side of the signal.

I always slow down the simulation a little bit so we can check if the signal reaches the ceiling and

the floor, so the butter voltage should be around zero voice, right?

That's because when the base wattage reaches the bottom voltage of 0.7 volts, the meter is lower with

one day drop, right?

Let's we can see the bottom voltage is indeed very close to zero wolf.

It's around 200 million volts.

And that's because the base voltage is biased to 6.5 volts and not 6.3 watts, as it should be.

Now let's check the upper voltage.

So again, when the base voltage reaches the ceiling, which is a 12 volt, the meter will be around

eleven point four volts, right?

And indeed, it's around that voltage.

So this means that the signal transferred has the maximum excursion.

And that's exactly what we wanted.