This circuit shows a nice example of an amateur follower saving an awkward circuit.

We are trying to switch a really bright white light.

The kind you use for IRA Lightning, which drops about three point six wall at its desired 500 million,

so forward current.

And we also got a zero to three point three worth digital logic signal available to control the switch.

Now, if you are familiar with microcontroller programming and you have heard about Arduino owner,

you know that the hope is can generate either 3.3 volts or firewalls, depending on the power supply

voltage.

So the software running on the microcontroller, which is on the Arduino board right, could control

this every turning it on or off, depending on how the user programs the microcontroller.

The First Circuit uses a single NPI saturated switch, which will be resistor sized to produce 10 million

amps of base current and a 2.5 ohms current limiting resistor in series with the idea.

My question to you is where does this Tamilians come from and how to calculate it?

We can basically form an imaginary loop here, because the that comes from this simple pin flows into

the base down the middle ground and back to the input, so we know that they put voltages 3.3 volt.

But we also know that there is a diode drop between the base of the meter, right?

So the total voltage will be 3.3 watt, minus 0.7 world, which is equal to 2.6 wolf.

And now, if you divide the 2.6 volt with 250 ohms, we will get the current of approximately 10 mg.

So I hope you understand where these Tamilians come from.

I just applied the second law of kickoff this year equities, OK, sort of, but it draws an uncomfortably

large current from the control input, and it requires Q1 to have plenty of current gain, which let's

see, it's 200 a the full load current of 0.5 amps.

The question is, how can we reduce the base current, which is Tamilians, so that the microcontroller

doesn't have to supply this much current to control this?

What happens if we cascades to transistors so the emitter of the first transistor controls the base

of the second transistor?

Hmm.

Let's see.

Indie circuit limited follower has come to the rescue, greatly reducing the input current.

Those who can't see the MCU had to supply only one hundred eighty eight micrograms from its and Gilpin

to turn these high current LCD on.

At the same time, the minimum beta requirement of Q3 speech is greatly reduced.

If you remember in the previous year with the transistor had to have a high beta of 200.

While in this case, it has only forty two.