The simplest regulated supply of wattage is simpler than the resistor one is connected in series the

Zenner diode to limit the current flow through the diode.

The stabilized output voltage is taken from across the Zenner diode does enter.

Diode is connected with its cathode terminal connected to the positive rail of the DC supply.

So it is reverse biased and will be operating in its breakdown condition.

The resistor R1 is selected, so to limit the maximum current flowing in the circuit with no load connected

to the circuit.

The load current will be zero right and all the silk with current passes through the xenon diode, which

in turn dissipates its maximum power.

Also, a smaller value of the series resistor are one result in a greater diode current than the load

resistance is connected and large, as this will increase the power dissipation requirement of the diode,

so care must be taken when selecting the appropriate value of serious resistance so that the Xenos maximum

power rating is not exceeded under this no load or high impedance condition.

The load is collected in parallel with the laminar diode, so the voltage across our air is always the

same as the xenon voltage, right?

There is a minimum level current for which the stabilization of the voltage is effective and Azamgarh

corridor must pay above this value.

The upper limit of current is, of course, dependent upon the power rating of the device.

This simple is then a regulated supply is sometimes used for non-critical circuits or circuits using

lethal supply current.

However, it has limited usefulness for several reasons.

The first reason is that the output voltage isn't adjustable or stable to a precise value.

The next problem is that Zenner diodes we've only moderated Reaper rejection and regulation against

changes of input or load owing to their finite, dynamic impedance.

The next reason is that for widely varying load currents, a high power is often necessary to handle

the dissipation at low load current.

Another problem is NATO stabilizer circuits.

Is that the diet can sometimes generate electrical noise on top of the busy supply as it tries to stabilize

the voltage.

Normally, it is not a problem for most applications, but the addition of a large value.

The company capacitor across the Xenos output may be required to give additional morphing.

So what can we do to solve all these issues?

By using an amateur follower to isolate the themor, you get the improved circulators as shown here

now, the situation is much better than their current can be made relatively independent of Lord current,

which means that even if you change the value of the load, the current passing the Zenner diode won't

change very much.

We can say almost nothing.

We have increased the value of R1 at a much higher value in the previous year created.

This was one kilogram, but now it's 10 times bigger.

The reason is because the base current of the transistor doesn't require very much current right, and

we use this transistor to amplify this current so that we can drive our load with enough current.

The base current is 17 microns.

The beta of the transistor.

Let's see, it's 100.

So if you multiply the beta, which is 100 with the base current, we will get the lowest current of

1.7 million amps.

The only downside of this circuit is that if you want to have a 3.3 volt output, regulated power supply,

which in turn will drive this simulated load right then the voltage has to be higher with a dire drop.

As you can see, the xenon voltage is 3.9 world, and if we decrease from this value, the base emitting

diode drop, we get an output voltage of 3.3 volts.

Anyway, the advantage is that the circuit offers exceeds the downsides in real world, if you put the

oscilloscope on the output voltage.

You will see a much cleaner, smoother 3.3 volts DC compared to the output voltage from the previous

year.

With the collector register, RCA can be added to protect the transistor from momentary output short

circuits by limiting the contract, even though it is not essential to the emitter failover function.

So I hope you understand what are the advantages the participation of the Zenner diode is greatly reduced

thanks to the low current required on the base of the transistor, which will provide enough current

amplification to drive this load.

The general current is relatively constant, so even if we take the load out or we modify its value,

the current will be approximately the same.

Later, you will see better voltage regulators ones in which you can vary the output easily and continuously

by using feedback.

There are also better voltage sources with output impedance is measured in millions and other desirable

features.