Hello, it's great to see you back.

This chapter will be about people, transistors, so our brain contains around 100 billion sets called

neurons, the tiny switches that let you think and remember things.

Computer contains billions of miniature brain cells as well.

They are called transistors and they are made from silicon, which is a chemical element commonly found

inside.

Transistors have revolutionized electronics since they were first invented over a century ago by John

Bardhan, Walter Barton and William Shockley.

But what are they and how do they work on?

A transistor is really simple and really complex.

Let's start with a simple part.

So a transistor is a miniature electronic component that can do two different jobs.

It can work either as an amplifier or as a switch.

Then it works as an amplifier, it takes in a tiny electric current at one end, which is also called

as input current and produces a much bigger electric current.

The other in other words, it's a kind of current booster that comes in really useful in things like

hearing aids, which is one of the first things people use transistors for.

So hearing aid has a tiny microphone in it, right.

That takes up sounds from the world around you and turns them into fluctuating electric currents.

These are fed into a transistor that boosts them and powers a tiny loudspeaker.

So you hear a much louder version of the sound around you.

On the other hand, transistors can also work, which is a tiny electric current flowing through.

One part of a transistor can make a much bigger current flow through another part of it.

In other words, the small current switches on the larger one.

This is essentially how all computer chips work.

For example, a memory chip contains hundreds of millions or even billions of transistors, each of

which can be switched on or off individually.

Since each transistor can be in two distinct states, it can store two different numbers, which is

zero and one.

Right.

And imagine that if you have like billions of transistors, a chip can store billions of zeros and ones.

Now you have to know that transistors are of two types.

They can be either NPN or PBP.

Before we talk about the differences between a pen and paper transistors for these costs, what they

are and they are similarities.

So above and beyond people, Zhongxun transistors, people are Russian transistors are current controlled

transistors that allow for current amplification.

So these devices are current controlled and not voltage control devices.

Don't worry, if you don't understand it right now, it will be clear once we do some simulations.

So a current at the base on the transistor allows for a much larger current across the meter and collector

leads.

MBNA pumps are exactly the same in their function.

They provide the amplification and or switching capability, so technically they achieve and do the

same thing.

How they differ is how power must be allocated to the terminal piece for them to provide this amplification

or switching since they are internally constructed very differently, which will see soon.

Current and voltage must be allocated differently in order for them to work.

And NPM Transistor receives positive royalties to the collector terminal and positive voltage at the

base terminal for proper operation.

However, a transistor receives positive voltage to the ammeter terminal and the negative voltage at

the base terminal sees voltage allocation is different.

How current flow works to turn them on is different and that transistor is powered on.

Then a sufficient current is applied to the base of the transistor.

Therefore, the base of an NPM transistor must be connected to positive voltage for current.

To flow into the base per transistor is the opposite in a patronises their current flows out of the

base by giving a base terminal a more negative or a lower voltage than what is applied to the ammeter

terminal.

As long as the voltage at the base terminal is lower than at the SM terminal in a transistor, the correct

biasing and the negative current effect will be achieved.

So by doing this with an open transistor, current needs to be sourced to the base of the transistor

for operation, this means current needs to flow into the base in a patronises are currently sourced

away or seeing from the base of the transistor to ground for operation.

This means current needs to flow out of the base.

So a simple approach of thinking about it is NPR transistor requires positive car to the base, while

a PMP requires negative current to the base by a negative current, which means that the direction of

the current is the opposite.

So it flows out of the base to ground.

Another important concept is differentiating and pinpointing transistors is that since voltage is allocated

differently, they have opposite current flows of the output in the transistor output current flows

from the collector to the ATM.

However, in a pure transistor output, current flows from the emitter to the collector.

There is a Y and Bienen P transistors are biased differently.

It's because of their construction.

So PNB transistors are made up of two layers of B material sandwiching a layer of Anna-Teresa, while

Albian transistors are made up of two layers of material, sandwiching one layer of material.

And as you can see, they are really opposite well and are from theory three.

See first an LP and transistor in action.

All right, so this is a demonstration of an end point transistor, the meter is at the ground and the

base and collector voltages can be controlled using the sliders on the right and then patronizes receives

positive voltage or the correct or terminal D positive voltage to the collector allows current to flow

across from the connector to a meter, given that there is a sufficient base current to turn the transistor

on.

But what do I mean by sufficient base current?

Well, now the voltage of the base is zero point seven.

All right.

But if I start decreasing this, notice that the base current is decreasing along with the collector

ammeter current.

In the next course you will understand the relationship between the base current and correct RAIM current.

You will understand how much baseball is required to turn this transistor on and its operation modes.

But for now, just look at how current is flowing in a transistor and which terminal to what potential

is connected.

So if you notice, a small current of the base controls a much higher current flowing between connecter

and limiter.

This tiny base current will be amplified by an amount that depends on the transistor in this case or

by how the biasing network of the transistor is constructed.

But right now, the collector ATM current is exactly 100 times bigger than the base current.

And check this out.

Even if you change the collector voltage, the current still remains the same.

How interesting is that?

Right.

We will see why it is working in this way in the next course.

But for now, let's see the current flow in a pump transistor.

A pump transistor receives positive voltage at the SM terminal.

The positive voltage to the emitter allows current to flow from the emitter to the collector.

Given that there is negative current to the base.

So current flowing out of the base to ground by negative current will mean that the base current is

flowing out of the base and not into it.

As long as the base voltage of the transistor is lower than the emitter voltage, the transistor will

turn on and current will flow from the emitter towards the collector.

However, if we narrow down the difference in potential between bass and emitter, you can see that

the ammeter connector current is decreasing, whereas a bigger difference in voltage results in more

current flowing at the output, the difference in voltage between meter and base should be around 0.01

watt.

And if there is at least 0.01 volts, normal small power transistors will fully turn on and conduct

current.

But more on this later.

Again, the output current is 100 times higher than the current.

And notice that the greater voltage doesn't have any impact upon the current as long as the collector

voltage is lower than that of the emitter.