Hello, so in the previous course, we talked about the similarities and differences between an NBN

and PMP transistor, and we mentioned that the point that these devices are current controlled and not

what is controlled, that's true, but only for people are Zhongxun transistors because there's another

type of transistor called Field Effect Transistor that we talk about the receptor.

So other people are Russian transistors.

These 55 transistors are voltage controlled.

OK.

All right.

So why are people transistors uncontrolled?

Well, these transistors are current control devices because the base current controls the flow of current

from the collector to ammeter and transistors are referred to as formerly of devices because when you

connect an NPR transistor to a circuit, it does not conduct across the collector to ammeter unless

a sufficiently large enough current is applied to the base.

In other words, the ambient transistor does not conduct current without a current apply to the base.

It is normally off in the absence of any base current.

This is in contrast to European transistors, which are referred to as formally on devices.

PNB transistors conduct current across the meter to collector.

Without any current being applied to the base of the transistor, there are sufficient voltage is applied

to the emitter terminal current flows in the absence of any applied based current.

So, again, an NPR translator is called Normally of device because it does not conduct current across

the collateral damage.

If there is no base voltage or current apply to the base, if we remove the two words from the base,

the ambient resistor will turn off.

On the other hand, a PNB transistor is called us normally on a device because the bass doesn't require

any DC power source to open up the transistor.

Yes, there is current flowing in the base indeed.

But the base, as you can see, can be tied to ground and the transistor will still conduct.

All right.

Now, the question is how exactly these transistors work.

Let's start with the transistor, how transistor work is probably the hardest concept for you to understand.

As a beginner, at least it was for me.

The problem is that almost everyone is trying to teach that the transistor is a semiconductor device.

And instead of just telling you what it does, they explain that, well, it consists of and doped and

B, the materials.

I don't know about you, but the statement that had me so much.

So let me tell you in the simple way how an MBA is a work.

The NBN transistor works because of something called a semiconducting material, a current flowing from

the base.

The emitter opens the flow of current from the collector to the emitter.

So if a small current flows at the base, it will allow for a larger current to flow from connecter

to ammeter.

And here comes the magic.

In a standard NPN transistor, you need to apply a voltage of about 0.01 volts in between a base and

Daym to get the current flowing from base to EDM.

Then you apply zero point seven words from base to ammeter.

You will turn the transistor on and allow a current to flow from collector to ammeter.

Now let's take a look at an example.

In this example, you can see how an NBN transistor works.

So an animal's battery connects to an eyelid and a transistor, but it connects through the transistor,

too.

And this means that an all current will flow in this part of the circuit until a transistor is turned

on.

To turn the transistor on, we need to apply at least zero point seven holes from base to emitter of

the transistor.

Now, imagine you have a smaller zero point seven words battery, and then we apply the zero point seven

words battery from the base daym the transistor turns on and now the differential voltage between base

limiter, as you can see, is six hundred forty one millivolts or zero point six voids.

This allows current to flow from the connector to the emitter.

But the question you might ask here is that where does the zero point six watts comes from?

Well, I mean, why do we need to apply exactly zero point six volts and ask two or five words to turn

a transistor on?

Well.

Transistors are kind of like an extension of another semiconductor component called diodes.

In a way, transistors are just two diodes, which they are cathodes tie together the diode.

Connecting base to ammeter is the important one here.

It matches the direction of the arrow on the schematic symbol and it shows you which way current is

intended to flow through the transistor.

The dual representation is a good place to start, but it's far from accurate.

For example, current from the base will have a flow to the collector only towards Daym.

So don't base your understanding of the transistors operation on this model and definitely don't try

to replicate it on a breadboard.

It won't work.

There's a whole lot of weird quantum physics level stuff controlling the interactions between the three

terminals.

So a standard normal diode kainaz current through it.

If there is a zero point seven drop across it, then there is zero point seven words across this diode,

which means there is a zero point seven words between the base and the amateur, the transistor we turn

on and conduct current from collector to ammeter.

So I hope you got the idea.

And in Damascus, we will talk about how a P transistor works.