Hello, when we come back, in the previous course, we have seen how to buy a transistor, which is

the process of providing these high voltage, which helps in the functioning of the circuit.

But this is kind of useless, right?

It doesn't do anything other than conducting Coran from collector Daym.

So what if we connect a capacitor in series with the base?

Now, let's give a value of three microworld to it and then connect firewall's AC power supply.

And finally, let's add an output pin to the meter so that we can view the signal being present on the

meter leg.

Great, so I notice that the input signal resembles to that of the output signal, right.

The only difference between the input signal and the output signal is that the output signal is less

than the input signal with zero point seven words.

Why?

Because 0.01 voltage dropped from the base to ammeter.

This circuit is Caldas Amytal follower or buffer amplifier circuit where the output is simply equal

to the input minus Adaiah drop, which is about seven hundred million is the advantage of the circuit

is that the transistor can provide current and power gain.

The transistor draws very little current from the input and provides low output impedance to any circuit

using the output of the follower, meaning that the output will not drop on the load.

The purpose of this course is to understand why an EDM follower needs to have a high input impedance

and low output impedance so we won't go into much details like how the circuit works, because I think

that would be a waste of time since I already covered a million followers where I have explained what

impedance matching is, how to build an ATM follower, and I have also made videos give you some useful

applications where ammeter follow what is needed.

The most difficult part of this is actually to understand what input and output impedance is and why

we should care about it.

This information will be also useful to analyze future circuits, so we will focus on that now.

Unlike a common EDM amplifier, which amplifies the input signal, the Amitav follower, which is also

known as Common Connector, has a gain of one, which means that the input signal is equal to the output

signal.

In fact, the opposite is even less with one dial drop.

So why is the circuit useful at all?

First, we have to know that ammeter follower provides high input impedance and low output impedance.

This concept of high input impedance and low output impedance is mostly used in amplifier circuits,

but not only there.

So let's take a look at this image.

Alright, so what do we see here?

First we have a source and destination, right?

These can be totally two different circuits that are all connected by a signal line and ground no matter

at circuit.

We are looking at it must have an input and output impedance.

So, for example, let's assume that the source is an MP three player or let's just assume first because

it's easier.

The source is just an AC voltage generator.

As we hopefully know, power supplies, no matter if they are DC or AC, have an intrinsic output impedance.

The destination will be the circuit that receives the signal, so it must have an input impedance,

this destination will be our emetophobia circuit that receives the input signal from a source.

Great.

Now, you will often hear in optronics that when you transfer a relatively weak signal from one part

of a circuit to another one, you should design the circuit so that the input impedance is much higher

than the output impedance.

But why is that?

That's because we want to transfer our signal without any power loss.

In other words, we want to transfer the signal without its voltage being decreased.

If we look carefully, the output and input impedance forms of voltage divider, if the input impedance

of the destination circuit is low because of the voltage, the effect, the input signal, we lose from

its power and nobody wants to lose power just because you send a signal from one part of the circuit

to another one.

Right now, based on this equation, if the input impedance is much greater than the output impedance,

then what is division will not effect our signal considerably.

Now, in the context of an amateur follower.

This also provides high input impedance and low output impedance.

But it's not that noticeable at first glance.

Let's try to draw this circuit in a different way.

When a signal source and load are connected to an amplifier, the corresponding electrical properties

of an amplifier circuit can be modeled as shown here.

You can imagine that this voice is your MP three player, which has an internal resistance address and

there is an amplifier in the middle that will amplify this audio and our is a high power speaker.

Then an amplifier is connected to a signal source.

The source sees the input impedance of the amplifier as a load.

Likewise, the input voltage within is what the amplifier sees across the input impedance.

The same idea applies for the output impedance of the amplifier.

Then allow the resistance or L is connected to the output of the amplifier.

The amplifier becomes the source feeding the load.

Therefore the output voltage and the impedance automatically becomes the source voltage and source impedance

for the load.

Then we can see that the input and output characteristics of an amplifier can both be modelled as a

simple, voltage divided network that BlueFire itself can be connected in common ammeter, a common

collector or in common base configurations.