All right, so in these course, let's try to find out the input and output impedance of this emetophobia

circuit, these transistor is biased using a voltage divider formed by our one and or to the resultant

base voltage is then six point firewall's.

So the ammeter voltage will be one diode drop less.

Right, which is five point eight void's.

Since the middle voltage is five point eight volts, the collector ammeter voltage will be to Edwards,

which is the connector voltage minus five point eight void's.

Right.

So it's six point two words.

Now, how to calculate the meter current.

I know it says here one point twenty three millions.

But why?

Well, using Ohm's Law current is equal to voltage divided by resistance.

Right?

The meter voltage at this point is five point eight volts and šemeta resistance is four point seven

km.

As a result, five point eight was divided by a four point seven km is equal to one point twenty three

million's great now compared to a common emitter amplifier.

A common collector, in other words.

And a meter follower is not very good at being a voltage amplifier because as we have seen, it's more

signal voltage gain is approximately equal to one.

So instead of amplifying the voltage, it amplifies in current, the greatest feature of an ATM follower

is that it can provide current gain as long as it is conducting.

That is, it can't pass a large current flowing from collector to the emitter in response to a small

change to its base current.

All right.

So let's see how we can calculate the input impedance of this circuit.

In order to find it out, you have to ask yourself, what does the input AC signal sees when it enters

the circuit?

Consider this circuit instead without displaying the values of the components.

And beside that, a load is connected to the end before copying capacitor in between.

Now for AC analysis of the circuit.

The capacitors are shorted because AC pass through a capacitor without a problem, right?

Whereas these signals are blocked.

But since this is AC analysis, the capacitor are considered as shorted.

They are nothing else but a piece of wire.

Now, using this term we will find out that these two resistors are one and are two are actually in

parallel.

And also notice that these two resistors are in parallel.

This means that the bass resistance is equal to or one in parallel to R2 and the equivalent Šemeta resistance

is equal to or even in parallel to the Lord's Resistance.

Now, the input impedance, which is that in of the common connector configuration and looking into

the base, is given US air bias in parallel with base impedance.

The base impedance is actually equal to better times are e plus little r e.

Well, there are a lot of calculations actually to get to this point, but I really don't want to bore

you out.

And on the other hand, I don't think it's necessary to go through all those calculations.

But what is this?

R.E. Well, this little R.E. is nothing else but the equivalent AC resistance value of the ammeter diode.

Usually people don't pay attention to it because it's very small compared to the actual šemeta resistance.

But this time is necessary to know in order to find the input impedance.

So the Amita's P and Junction effectively acts as a forward bias diode.

And for small AC input signals, these ammeter diode junction has a resistance given by 25 millivolts

divided by the meter current, where the 25 millivolts is a thermo voltage of the junction at room temperature.

So as room temperature at 25 degrees Celsius to be more exact.

This might be confusing, but Ari is not the šemeta resistance, but it's the equivalent Lord's Resistance,

which is equal to the Šemeta resistance being in parallel with the Lord's Resistance, replacing the

values in the equation, we get an equivalent Lord's Resistance of three point two kms.

Now we have everything in order to calculate a transistor basic impedance except the BITA.

Let's assume that the beat of the transistor is 100.

If the Beita is 100, the evidence will be equal to 320 to Killens.

Great.

Now, let's try to find out that our bias, well, our bias is nothing else but the equivalent of bias,

for instance, which is formed by our one being in parallel to argue.

So the human resistance is then three thousand seventy ohm.

Now that we know the bias resistance and the base impedance they put impedance of the circuit will be

two point eight km.

If we look fully to this equation, we can't notice an important thing.

Actually, the basic paedos doesn't have very much influence on the overall input.

Embitters 2.8 km is very close to the value of the equivalent biased resistance, which is three thousand

seventy ohm.

Right.

So the transistors baozi impedance of 322 km is much higher than the amplifiers input impedance of only

two point eight km.

Thus the input impedance of the common collected amplifier is determined by the ratio of two biasing

resistors, which are our one and or two.

And that's it.

They put the pittances 2.8 km.

Now what about the input.

Sorry, the output impedance.

To determine the ammeter follower's output impedance, looking from the lowered back into the amplifiers

ATM terminal, we must first remove the load as we want to see the effective resistance of the amplifier

that is driving the load.

The equation to determine the output impedance is the following, and we can see that the Šemeta resistor

is effectively in parallel with the whole impedance of the transistor.

Looking back into its ammeter terminal.

If we calculated the output impedance of our common emitter amplifier circuit using the component values,

it would give us an output impedance of less than 50 ohms, which is much smaller than the higher input

impedance which was calculated previously.

As a result, we can see that the common Claitor amplifier configuration has from calculation a very

high input impedance and a very low output impedance, allowing it to drive a load that requires high

current.

And since it has a high input impedance, the amplifier will draw very little current from the source,

which is very good in cases.

Then, for example, the source signal is weak and it cannot provide current to the amplifier.

Having determined that R20 paedos of our example amplifier is approximately 50 ohm by calculation,

if we now connect the 10 km load resistor back into the circuit, the resulting output impedance will

be the output impedance that we just calculated in parallel with the Lord's Resistance.

And now the new output impedance is equal to forty nine point three ohm.

Although the lower resistance is 10 km, the equivalent output resistance is still very low at forty

nine point three ohm.

And this is because Orell is very large compared to the output impedance of the SM follower.

All right.

So as a summary, we have seen that the input impedance of an immediate follower is high y its output

impedance is low, which makes it useful for impedance matching purposes or as a buffer circuit between

a wealthy source and a low impedance load.

And to avoid any confusion, a low impedance load is nothing else but a load, like, for example,

a motor or a speaker that requires high current to operate.