Welcome back.

So you have probably noticed that there is a capacitor on either side of the amplifier, one is connected

to the input and the other one is connected to the output.

What are they and how to calculate their value?

Well, that's what we'll find out in this course.

Oh.

These capacitors that are connected in a series of the signal and increase, as well as with the amplifier

stage, are called US Coplin capacitors.

So what is a coupling capacitor in electronics?

A coupling capacity, the capacitor, which is used to copple or link together only the AC signal from

one circuit element to another.

The capacitor blocks the DC signal from entering the second element and as a result only passes the

AC signal.

Now let's see the use of Coplin capacitors.

Copely capacitors are useful in many types of circuits where AC signals are the desired signals to the

output, while these signals are just used for providing power to certain components in the circuit

but should not appear in the output.

For example, a copying capacitor normally is used in an audio circuit such as a microphone circuit.

This power is used to give power to parts of the circuit, such as the microphone, which needs DC power

to operate.

So these signals must be present in the circuit for powering purposes.

However, when a user talks into the microphone, the speech is an easy signal and this signal is the

only signal.

In the end, we want passed out when we pass the AC signals from the microphone onto the output device,

says speakers to be played or a computer to be recorded.

We don't want to pass the signal, right?

Remember, the signal was only to power parts of the circuit.

We don't want it showing up on the output, recording on the output.

We only want the AC speech signal.

So to make sure only the AC passes while the DC signal is blocked, we place a copying capacitor in

the circuit.

Another example is to copy the three stages of common ammeter amplifiers together.

So Common Emitter amplifiers are used to amplify the input signal in voltage and current using more

stages in a series like here, the input, which is a weak signal, is amplified once, twice and third

time.

So the overall bit of the circuit will be better one times better, two times better.

Three.

The advantages of the multi stage amplifier are flexibility within input and output, impedance and

higher gain.

It can be used to increase extremely weak signals to utilize above levels.

The distortion can be reduced by changing the signal in stages.

While it is possible to directly copple each stage to the next, we are a resistor rather than a capacitor.

This makes the whole amplifier very sensitive to variations in the DC byas voltage of the first.

It seems that high voltage will be amplified along with the AC signal until the last stage.

In other words, the biasing of the first stage will affect the biasing of the second stage and so on.

However, if the stages are competitively coupled as shown here, the biasing of one stage does not

effect on the biasing of the next because a DC voltage is blocked from passing on to the next stage.

Great.

Now, in the context of an amateur follower, look at the Šemeta follower as a block diagram which is

used to power amplification purposes.

This amplifier stage is connected to another circuit that provides the AC signal that has to be amplified

in current in order to make sure that there is no DC voltage coming from the previous circuit, we connect

accompanying capacitor if, let's say we don't use a copying capacitor and the AC signal coming from

the previous equities superimposed on a DC voltage, then what will happen?

What will happen is that the bias point of the transistor will be messed up.

This DC voltage from the previous circuit.

We mess up the cube point of the transistor where key point is the crescent point or simply biased point.

Let's try to visualize this behaviour using our simulator.

All right, so we have our ED followers circuit, and my question to you is, why is this AC voltage

superimposed on a DC voltage?

So why is the AC voltage added on top of a DC voltage?

That's because this signal is taken at this point to ground.

If we remove the capacitor, you can see that the bass transistor is biased at two point three volts,

the voltage divider halves the power supply voltage at 2.5 volts.

Right.

Because they have the same value and there's a zero point two.

Voyles dropped on the transistors baize.

So overall, the transistor is biased at two point three words.

Now because of the capacitor, which is in series with the AC voltage, only the AC part of the signal

will pass through and the DC voltage is blocked.

Since the DC voltage is blocked, our bias voltage is not disturbed by external DC voltages, so it

will sit nicely at two point three volts and the small AC voltage will be added on top of it.

Of course the bias point is moving up and down, so you have to make sure to buy as the transistor appropriately.

Depending on the input AC voltage sees our input voltage is five would signal a two point three volts.

Biased point is a good value so that the transistor will always be in active mode, meaning that it

will always conduct.

You can actually add this input AC voltage on top of a DC voltage by giving a DC offset value.

So let's give it a value of two words.

Right.

This means that the input voltage is a combination of two words, D.C. voltage and five words AC signal.

And as we expected, the CPU point or in other words, the bias point didn't change at all because that

two was D.C. couldn't pass through the Cabaser.

Now, as you can see, the output voltage is added on top of a DC voltage because the midpoint of the

signal is not on the ground as it should be.

The whole signal is a positive signal if you want to connect the circuit to another circuit.

Let's say to another amplifier stage or two, just a speaker.

You don't want any DC voltage to be present on your speaker, right?

Why would you want that?

It will just keep heating up the speaker and it would be a total waste of energy.

The music or whatever it is, should contain only AC components when you drive a speaker.

So in order to get rid of the DC, we connect a copying capacitor in between.

All right.

Now the question is how to actually calculate the value of these Coplin capacitors.

You can see the circuit is the same as the one we used in the previous course.

In order to correctly choose an appropriate value of the capacitor, we had to take many things into

account, which we will now these cores one and we have to decide the cut off frequency of the circuit.

This is the frequency that we want filtered out the equation used to calculate the high pass filters.

The frequency is the following from this equation.

The capacitor value is equal to one over Tupi f r.

This is the equation that we will use to calculate the input coupling capacitor.

But the question is what is the cutoff frequency and what is the value of R?

If you are dealing with sound signals, the frequency range that is audible to humans is 40 hertz to

20 kilohertz.

This means that we have to build our circuits so that all the audible signals will be passed through.

So 40 hertz is a good cut off frequency to choose.

This means that any frequency at that range or lower will be filtered out to ground.

So we will choose 40 hertz as our cutoff frequency.

The next thing we must consider is the value of the transistors that the capacitor sees.

If you visualize current flowing into the circuit court and can go either one of three ways, Corren

can go through the capacitor and through the R transistor and on the ground current can go through the

capacitor and through the R one resistor or current can flow through the transistor airflow through

the r e resistor down to around.

It may seem strange that current can flow through the authorities there, but it ignores AC DC voltage

levels underground as well.

So even though it's up to the DC level of airballs to AC signals, it can also be a ground.

And this is why this can be a path down to ground as well.

So these are the three ways that currently are flow in the circuit.

Even though current can take the path is ultimately what a capacitor sees that determines the real resistance

that it encounters.

So we talk about this now.

Resistors or one or two are in parallel.

Therefore, the capacitor sees the equivalent resistance of these two parallel resistors.

So the capacitor sees the five point six km resistance in parallel with the six point eight km.

So this is the resistance that the capacitor sees that one pathway.

The other pathway is when the current goes through the transistor and through resistance, r e d resistance

will be better times lethal r e plus the šemeta resistance combining the two pathways together.

The overall resistance that the capacitor will see is one in parallel with our two in parallel with

Beitar Times, the increasing resistance plus the Šemeta resistance.

If you noticed this equation is nothing else but the input impedance of the circuit.

So actually the capacitor sees the input, the impetus of the circuit.

And not only are you, as many of you might think, since we already calculated the importance of the

circuit, right.

It was two point eight km that the value of the capacitor we compute to one point four micro ferret's.

Now we move onto the second capacitor and it's chosen similarly to the first capacitor.

We want the second capacitor to react similarly to the first in regard to the frequency that we are

dealing with.

This is because the same frequency signal that is input is output.

So you want to match the frequency response for both capacitors to the same frequency.

So for the output capacitor, we also calculate it according to its forty hertz frequency response.

Now, what the output gap, Athersys, looking back into the capacitor, is overall output impedance.

Unfortunately, we already know its value since it was calculated previously.

It is around 50 ohms.

Therefore, the value of CO2 will be equal to one or two P times 40 hertz times 50 OMERS, which gives

us a value of seventy nine point six of.

So this is how you calculate the value of the two copper capacitors connected to this Amytal follower.

Now that we know how to calculate its values, it would be much easier to understand how to calculate

the values of the capacitor in a common ammeter configuration.