Hello when we come back.

So in my first course intended for beginners, I have explained how to build a common šemeta rapid fire

from scratch so I would not cover it again here.

Instead, we will understand why engineers place a capacitor in parallel with the Šemeta resistor.

I'm sure you stumbled upon this before.

So in this course we will see the effect of this capacitor on the overall self-willed behavior on.

First, why are bipeds competitors using optronics?

Well, the main purpose of a bypass competitor is to shunt the undesirable high frequency components

of a power supply while passing the desirable D.C. Circuit without bypass.

Cabaser or improper bypassing can create severe power disturbances and may lead to a circuit failure.

Hence, an appropriate bypass capacitor must be used in the circuit.

Almost all analog and digital devices use bypass capacitors.

So in both these devices, a bypass capacitor, usually a capacitor of value zero point one micro is

placed very closely to the power pinions.

Power supply sources also use bypass capacitors, and they are usually a larger than micro capacitors.

The value of bypass capacitor is dependent on the device.

Like, for example, in case of power supplies, it is between 10 to 100 microworld and in case of ices

it is usually zero point one microworld or determined by the frequency of operation.

If the bandwidth of the device is approximately one megahertz, one microworld bipeds capacitors used,

if the bandwidth is approximately 10 megahertz or above zero point one microflora capacitor is used.

But in some applications, a network of bypass capacitors in parallel is used to filter a wide range

of frequencies.

Great.

Now what about the emitter Cabaser?

Let's remove the capacitor for a second.

All right.

So a transistor is an active device and in order to work, it needs DC power, right?

This power source is VXI.

In this case, VXI is equal to 15 volts.

These 15 volts provides power to the transistor so that the transistor can amplify signals.

If we wanted this signal to be us purely a DC as possible.

Right.

Although we obtain our DC voltage VXI from a DC power source such as a power supply, the voltage isn't

always purely DC.

In fact, many times the voltage is very noisy and contains a lot of AC reports on it, especially the

50 or 60 hertz frequency, because this is the frequency at which AC signals are on in many countries.

So although we want a pure DC signal such as this one, many times we get a noisy signal that looks

like this.

These signal such as this is actually very common and this is undesired because it adds noise to the

transistor circuit and therefore this noisy DC signal will be imposed on the AC signal.

So the AC signal, which may have music or some type of recording, will now have much more noise.

This noise, which is on the signal, is a skripal.

Many times when using a DC power supply connected to an AC power outlet, it will have some of the AC

noise transfer to the DC power voltage.

AC Reaper can also appear from other sources, like, for example, even batteries can produce noise

to eliminate these AC people use a bypass capacitor.

A capacitor, as you already know, is a device that offers a tremendously high resistance for signals

of low frequencies.

Therefore, signals at low frequencies will not go through them.

And this is because signals always take the path of least resistance.

Therefore, they will instead go through the resistor r e.

And remember, again, this is for low frequency signals, which is basically the easy signals.

However, capacitors offer much less resistance at higher frequencies, so AC signals will go through

the capacitor and then to ground.

Therefore these signals will go through the resistor.

Ari, while AC signals will go through the capacitor getting shunted to ground so AC signals get shunted

around.

This is how we have a clean DC signal across our circuit while AC noise imposed on it is bypassed to

ground.

So a bypass capacitor blocks the DC from entering it by the great resistance it offers to the signal,

but accepts the AC noise that may be on the DC line and shantz or bypasses it to ground.

And this is how by Best Capacitor works.