Now that, you know, conceptually what the bipeds capacitor is, the next step is to know how to select

the value of the bipeds capacitor and selecting the value is pretty straightforward.

The value of the episcopacy.

There should be at least one tenth of the resistance across the Šemeta resistance, which is R.E. at

the lowest frequency intended to be bypassed because capacitors are reactive devices, they have different

resistances to signals based on the signal frequency.

This is referred to as the capacitors reactors, which can be seen as the resistance it offers.

We wanted to get better to have one tenth of the resistance to the flow of current than what the resistance

offers for the frequency signal that we want to bypass.

If you visualize the current moving through the transistor, it can take one of two paths once it passes

the collector and moves through the emitter.

So current can either go through the resistor Ari or current can flow through the bypass capacitor and

current always takes the path of least resistance and therefore current will take the path of the lower

registers.

And this is why you want the value of the resistance of the bipeds capacitor to be at least one tenth

the value of the šemeta register or even better, less than one tenth.

And we want the AC current to flow through the least resistance path, which is the bypass capacitor.

If the correct value is chosen.

However, these signals do not see us ac to DC.

The capacitor has infinite resistance, so this will automatically go through the r e resistor, which

offers lower resistance by far to the infinite resistance of the capacitor.

AC, however, does not see if it resistors for the capacitor, right?

If we choose the value correctly for the capacitor, we can make the capacitor a much lower resistance

path to ground and as a result shorting out the AC signal to ground.

So let's go over a practical example of how we would select the bypass capacitor value.

Let's say we want to bypass the lowest possible frequency of 50 hertz because the frequency of AC voltage

worldwide are 50 to 60 hertz, right.

And therefore, this frequency can be a very problematic because often there is a at this frequency.

So remember that we want to choose the value of our bypass capacitor based on the lowest frequency that

we want to bypass.

So by selecting the frequency of 50 hertz, this blocks frequencies from 50 hertz and higher.

So it covers 60 hertz.

Right.

Frequency of an easy signal increases the resistance of the capacitor, decreases and decreases with

each increase and therefore all the frequencies above the frequency value that we chose get bypassed

easier and easier.

We will demonstrate this all mathematically.

All right.

So we decided that we want to bypass AC signals of 50 hertz or higher to ground.

The typical value of an empty resistor is usually 40 and sorry, 400 to 500 owns.

The resistance is kept low, so that gain of the transistor isn't lowered to much.

So let's say we choose an ATM resistor or 470 ohm.

This means that we want the reactants of the capacitor to be one tenth of 470 or more or less, which

is 47 ohm or lower.

So this is our target.

The reactors of a capacitor can be calculated using this formula.

So the retina is equal to one or two BFC, which is equal to one divided by two times three point forty

times 50 hertz and timezone, which is equal to forty seven ohm.

Now solving for the capacitance, see if we get the value of approximately sixty seven micro Farad's.

So we need a capacitor of at least 67 microarrays to get the resistance of one tenth the value of 470

ohm resistor.

A 67 microfiber capacitor isn't readily available.

We can round it up to 100 microflora, which is readily available and easy to obtain.

And this is even better because we for larger capacitors, the capacitor offers even less resistance

to the AC signal.

If we plug a 100 microworld capacitor into the same capacitor reactants formula, we get reactance of

thirty one point eight ohms and this is much lower than one tenth of the 470 on resistor that we have

in parallel.

So it will act effectively to short all AC signals, 50 hertz or higher to grant to clean up the DC

signal.

You could even increase the capacity even more to allow for less AC noise on the signal.

But a lot of times this will not be done for cost er size constraints.

The reasons, the larger the size a capacitor is, the more it costs per unit also the larger the size

of a capacitor, the larger physical is.

And therefore if a company is designing a product the size of the capacitor could be a problem.

If there are size constraint issues, the way things are going in.

Electronics companies want product to be a small and concise as possible.

So due to reasons such as these larger value, capacitors won't always be chosen.

But theoretically they would increase the purity of the disk signal by allowing more AC to grant.