Hello, beautiful people in this course, or better say it is chapter, we will look at one of the most

famous passive component called US Capacitor, along with resistors and the doctors.

They are one of the most fundamental passive components we use.

You would have to look very hard to find the circuit which did not have the capacity need.

A capacitor is a two term electrical component.

What makes capacitors special is their ability to store energy.

They are like a fully charged electric battery.

So in a way, a capacitor is a little like a battery, although they work in completely different ways.

Capacitors and batteries both store electrical energy.

A battery uses chemicals to store electrical energy and release it very slowly through a circuit.

Sometimes in case of a quartz watch, it can take several years.

On the other hand, a capacitor generally releases its energy much more rapidly, often in seconds or

less.

If you are taking a flash photograph, for example, you need your camera to produce a huge burst of

light in a fraction of a second.

A capacitor attached to the flash gun charges up for a second using energy from your cameras batteries.

Once the capacitor is fully charged, it can release all the energy in an instant through the xenon

flash mob.

So now there are two common ways to draw a capacitor in a schematic.

They always have two terminals which go on to connect to the rest of the circuit.

The capacitor symbol consists of two parallel lines, which are either flat or curved.

Both lines should be parallel to each other.

Close, but not touching.

It's hard to describe, easier to show.

The symbol with the curve line, which is a second one, indicates that the capacitor is polarized,

meaning it's probably an athletic capacitor.

But more on that in the types of capacitor course between this chapter.

Now, each capacitor should be accompanied by a name like C one, C two, etc. and a value.

The value should indicate the capacitors of the capacitor.

How many Farad's it has.

Now, speaking of Arad's not all capacitors are created equal.

Each capacitor is built to have a specific amount of capacitors.

The capacitors of a capacitor tells you how much charge it can store.

More capacitance means more capacity to store charge.

The standard unit of capacitance is called the Ferid, which is abbreviated as F.

Now it turns out that a Faraday is a lot of capacitors, even zero point zero zero one Ferid, which

is what Middleford Well this is a big capacitor.

Usually you will see capacitors rated the Peko to microflora Ferid range, then you get into the ferid

to kill off the range of capacitors.

You start talking about special capacitors called super or ultra capacitors.

These super or ultra capacitors are quite rare in electronics.

What you will most often find are capacitors rated in the Picardo Microflora range.

All right, so this was an introduction course for capacitors in the next course.

Let's see how a capacitor is made.