All right, so this dramatic symbol for a capacitor actually closely resembles how it's made.

A capacitor is created out of two metal plates and an insulating material called us Dielectric.

The metal plates are placed very close to each other in parallel, but the dielectric sits between them

to make sure they don't touch.

The dielectric can be made out of all sorts of insulating materials like paper, glass, rubber, ceramic,

plastic or anything that will impede the flow of current.

And due to this insulating layer that sits between the two plates, DC current cannot flow through the

capacitor as it blocks it, allowing instead of voltage to be present across the plates in the form

of an electric charge.

But more on this later.

Now the plates are made of conductive material like aluminum, tantalum, silver or other metals.

They are each connected to a terminal wire, which is what eventually connects to the rest of the circuit.

The capacitance of a capacitor like how many Farad's it has depends on how it's constructed.

So more capacitors requires a larger capacitor plate with more overlapping surface area, provide more

capacitors while more distance between the plates means less capacitors.

The material of the dielectric even has an effect on how many Farad's a capacitor has.

So the total capacitance of a capacitor can be calculated with this equation where Epsilon R is the

dielectric relative perpetuity, which is the constant value determined by the dielectric material.

A is the amount of area the plates overlap each other and this is a distance between the plates.

So from this equation you can see that the larger the conductive plate is, the bigger the capacitance

and the bigger the distance between the two plates, the lower the capacitors.

Last but not least, the type of material which separates the two plates called the dielectric.

So the higher the activity of the dielectric, the greater the capacitors.

Great.

So that was it in the last course, let's see what are the different types of capacitors that you will

stumble upon in electronics?