There are all sorts of capacitor types out there, each with certain features and drawbacks, which

make it better for some applications than others when deciding on capacitor types, there are a handful

of factors to consider, like, for example, size, size, both in terms of physical volume and capacitors.

It's not uncommon for a capacitor to be the largest component in a circuit.

They can also be very tiny.

So more capacitors typically requires a larger capacitor.

The other factor to consider is the maximum voltage.

You see, each capacitor is rated for a maximum voltage that can be dropped across it.

Some capacitors might be rated for firewalled, others might be ready for 100 watts.

Exceeding the maximum voltage will usually result in destroying the capacitor.

The other factor is the leakage.

Current capacitors are in perfect.

Every capacitor is prone to leaking some tiny amount of current through the dielectric from one terminal

to the other.

These tiny kernels, usually Dunlap's or less, is called leakage.

Leakage causes energy stored in the capacity to slowly but surely drain away.

The other factor is the equivalent series resistance.

The turbulence of a capacitors are at 100 percent conductive.

They will always have a tiny amount of resistance, usually less than zero point zero one ohm.

And this resistance becomes a problem when a lot of current runs through the capacitor producing heat

and power loss.

So I advise you to remember this equivalent series resistance because it may come handy in the next

course.

The other factor to consider is the tolerance.

Capacitors also can be made to have an exact, precise capacitance.

Each capacitor will be arrested for their nominal capacitance, but depending on the type, the exact

value might vary anywhere from plus minus one percent to plus minus 20 percent of the desired value.

All right, so the most commonly used and produce competitor out there is the ceramic capacitor.

The name comes from the material from which they are dielectric is made.

Ceramic capacitors are usually both physically and capacitors wise, small.

It's hard to find the ceramic capacitor much larger than their micro.

Farad's a surface bounce.

A capacitor is commonly found in a tiny zero four zero two zero six zero three or zero eight zero five

package through Húsavík.

Capacitors usually look like small Comolli yellow or light bulbs with of course, two terminals.

Now, compared to the equally popular quality capacitor, ceramics are more near ideal capacitor, which

means that they have much lower ESR and leakage currents.

But there's small capacitors can be limiting.

They are usually the least expensive option to do so.

These capacitors are better suited for high frequency coupling and KOPLIK applications, which we will

talk about in our future course.

Now, the next type of capacitor, which is also very famous, is the aluminum and tantalum electrolytic

electrolytic are great because they have a lot of capacitors into a relatively small volume.

If you need a capacitor in the range of one micro Farad's to one million Herrod, you are most likely

to find it in the athletic form.

They are especially well suited to high voltage applications because of their relatively high maximum

voltage ratings.

Aluminum excellente capacitors, which are the most popular of the athletic family, usually look like

little tin cans, with both leads extending from the bottom.

Unfortunately, athletic capacitors are usually polarized.

They have a positive spin, which is the energy and a negative being called the cathode.

Then a voltage is applied to the resulting capacitor.

The anode must be at a higher voltage than the cathode, so the cathode often actually capacitor is

usually identified with a minus marking and a coloured strip on the case.

The leg of the anode might also be slightly longer as another indication now, if voltage is applied

in reverse for the equality capacitor, they will fail spectacularly, making a pop and bursting open

and permanently being damaged.

After popping unathletic, they will behave like a short circuit, meaning that current will flow through

it without a problem.

This is exactly the opposite behavior of a normal working capacitor which blocks NCDC current to flow

through it.

Also, I want to point out that these quality capacitors are also notorious for leakage, which means

that they allow small amounts of current well in the order of Nederlands to run through the dielectric

from one terminal to the other.

This makes electrolytic capacitors less than ideal for energy storage, which is unfortunate given their

high capacity and voltage rating right in the first course.

We mentioned supercapacitors.

If we are looking for a capacitor made to store energy, look no further than supercapacitors.

These capacitors are uniquely designed to have a very high capacitance in the range of Farad's.

While they can store a huge amount of charge, supercapacitors can't deal with very high voltages.

So this 10 ferid capacitor is only rated, as you can see, for two point five words maximum.

Any more than that will destroy it.

Supercapacitors are commonly placed in series to achieve a higher voltage rating well, while reducing

the total capacitance.

Now the main application for supercapacitors is is touring and releasing energy, just like batteries,

which are their main competition.

While supercapacitors can't hold as much energy as an equally sized battery, they can release it much

faster and they usually have a much longer lifespan.

All right.

So Politica ceramic capacitors cover about 80 percent of the capacitor types out there and supercops

only about two percent.

Another common capacitor type is the field capacitor, which features very low parasitic losses, making

them great for dealing with very high currents.

Now, another common Cabaser type is the mycar capacitor.

So, Michael, capacitors can work in high temperature environments.

The maximum ambient temperature can reach 237 degrees Celsius, far more than the general ceramic capacitors

and the general aluminum electricity capacitor, which can only work at up to 40 degrees Celsius.

The long term storage capacity of the michot capacitance changes between zero point zero one percent

to zero point zero two percent, which is also better than the average capacitor.

If you want to do high quality, high precision, high stability of the analog circuit where you are

dealing with high frequencies, Michael Capacitor is the only choice.

So, for example, in higher circuits such as high end, high fi audio, the basic issues are also mycar

capacitors as the Michael capacitor production process is more complex, costly, bulky, limited capacity.

So the price in the market is also higher than the average capacitor.

All right, folks, and now we are ready to do our first simulation with capacitors where we will see

what happens when a DC current passes through a capacitor.

It doesn't matter which type of capacitor we are using, sees the behavior is the same for all of them.

See you next course.