Now, before we get into the simulation part, I want to lay down some theory so it would be easier

for you to understand the working principle of the capacitor than this current flow through it.

We already know that there is an insulating layer between the capacitor, which is commonly called the

dielectric.

Due to this insulating layer, these secorun cannot flow through the capacitor that it blocks it, allowing

instead of voltage to be present across the plates in the form of an electrical charge.

When used in a direct current or DC Circuit, a capacitor charges up to its supply voltage but blocks

the flow of current through it because the dielectric of a capacitor is non conductive and basically

an insulator.

When current flows into a capacitor, the charges get stuck on the plates because they can't get past

the insulating dielectric.

Electrons, which are negatively charged particles are sucked into one of the plates and it becomes

overall negatively charged.

The large mass of negative charges on one plate pushes away like charges on the other plate, making

it positively charged.

The positive and negative charges on each of these plates attract each other because that's what opposite

charges do.

But with the dielectric sitting between them, as much as they want to come together, the charges will

forever be stuck on the plate.

Well, of course, until they have somewhere else to go, then positive and negative charges coalesce

on the capacitor plates.

The capacitor becomes charged, a capacitor can retain its electric field, will hold its charge because

the positive and negative charges on each of the plates attract each other but never reach each other.

At some point, the capacitor plates will be so full of charges that they just can't accept anymore.

There are enough negative charges on one plate that they can repel any others that try to join.

And this is where the capacitance of a capacitor comes into play, which tells you the maximum amount

of charge the cap can store.

This also implies that the bigger the capacitance, the more time it needs to charge up for a given

current.

So if a perf in a circuit is created, which allows the charges to find another path to each other,

they will leave the capacitor and it will discharge.

So, for example, in this circuit, a battery can be used to induce an electric potential across the

capacitor.

This will cause equal but opposite charges to build up on each of the plates until they are so full

they repel any more current.

Following an energy placing series with capacitor could provide a path for the current, and the energy

stored in a capacitor could be used to briefly illuminate the LSD.

All right, here we are in this simple circuit.

We have a firewall's battery along with a 200 microworld capacitor and a resistor in series.

If it now is, see in the moment why we have this resistor here.

But I want you to notice that the capacitor we are using here is a non polarized capacitor.

So we have polarized capacitors such as the Athletica pastors and we have the non polarized ones.

Since it's a non polarized capacitor, you can connect it however we want, meaning that if we flip

the capacitor, there will be no problem whatsoever.

So right now the is discharged, the switch is open and all current flows in this path.

However, notice that once I close the switch, current will flow in the circuit, but only until the

capacity starts up.

Because the moment the capacity is fully charged, no more current will flow in this path, since the

dielectric sitting between the two plates impedes the current flow.

So how do we know that the capacity is charged up?

Well, the voltage drop across the capacitor matches the power supply of voltage.

So if I increase the power supply voltage to, let's say, 10 volts, notice that the capacitor will

start charging up again until the voltage across its plate reaches the power supply voltage before you

apply any voltage on the capacitor.

I recommend it to check the datasheet of the particular capacitor that you are using, because the data,

it will specify the maximum voltage that can be applied across the capacitor.

Now, what do you think will happen when I release the speech?

Well, the charge that is stored in a capacitor will be released at current will flow in this path until

the capacitor is fully discharged.

Now, I don't know if you noticed, but the current was flowing in the clockwise direction and not anticlockwise.

So when the capacity is charging up current flows from top to bottom, but when the capacity is discharging

current flows in the opposite direction.

But why is that?

Well, that's because when the capacity is charged up, positive charges will be stuck on the first

plate and negative charges will be stuck on the second plate.

Now, following the conventional current flow, which I know many people don't like for some reason,

current flows from the positive terminal to the negative terminal.

As a result, when the switch is released, current will flow in the opposite direction from the positively

charged plate towards the negatively charged plate until the capacitor is discharged.

All right, so let's wrap it up as current flows into the capacitor, the voltage across the capacitor

increases as its voltage approaches the source voltage, the current flowing into the capacitor decreases.

And I almost forgot to tell you why we have this resistor here where this resistor here is necessary

to limit the current flow during the charging phase.

Well, let's discharge the capacitor and take out the resistor.

Now, as you can see, when I hit the switch again, the simulator will complain that this loopier does

not contain any resistance.

In other words, an infinite amount of current free flow in this path, which is the reason why we get

this error.

So why is there infinite amount of current flow?

Well, that's because the simulator treats every component as ideal, towards which, of course, in

the real world is not the case.

An idea of what Esau's or simple battery does not have any resistance.

As a result, it would be able to supply infinite amount of current.

I would be short here.

So we would talk about ideal voltage sources in another course.

Normally in real life, batteries internally have some resistance, which could be illustrated simply

as a tiny resistor in series with the battery.

This resistor in series is the one that basically limits the amount of current that the power supply

or a battery can deliver.

Have you ever seen a power supply that can deliver infinite amount of current?

Well, me neither.

On the other hand, the simulator also treats the capacitor as ideal, one having no internal resistance

whatsoever.

A real capacitor, however, can be illustrated as a capacitor with some tiny resistor in series, also

with a tiny inductance, actually.

But let's not get into that right now, which would actually limit the current flow.

So in theory, yes, the moment you close us reach an infinite amount of current, we will start to

flow, since there's absolutely nothing to limit the current, however inevitable, scenario.

This is not the case since world resources have some internal resistance that will limit the current

flow and also the capacity leg provide some tiny resistance that will also limit the current.

And as a result, you will never see in real life an infinite amount of current flow at the beginning

of the charging phase.

However, it can happen that if you charge the capacitor with a relatively high amount of current,

the capacitor can get destroyed.

So again, you should look into the datasheet where it says the maximum allowed current to flow through

the capacitor.


