Now, let's move further and see how to calculate the charge, the voltage and the current flowing through

the capacitor.

I want to point out that this course is not mandatory to understand in order to actually use capacitors.

So if you feel like you can skip this, however, I do recommend you to stay till the end.

So a capacitors capacitance, which means how many Farad's it?

S tells you how much charge it can store, how much charge a capacitor is currently storing depends

on the potential difference between its plates.

This relationship between charge, capacitance and voltage can be modeled with this equation.

So the capacitance of a capacitor should always be a constant, a known value so we can adjust voltage

to increase or decrease the capacitors charge more voltage means more charge, less voltage means less

charge.

This equation also gives us a good way to define the value of one Ferid.

So long, Ferid, is the capacity to store one unit of energy in KM's for every one vote.

All right.

So the charge stored in a capacitor is a product of its capacitance and the voltage applied to it.

We can take the charge of voltage capacitance equation a step further to find out how the capacitors

and voltage effect current.

Because current is the rate of flow of charge.

The biggest of a capacitor relationship to voltage and current is this.

So the amount of current through a capacitor depends on both the capacitance and how quickly the voltage

is rising or falling.

So again, the amount of current that flows through the capacitor depends on both the capacitors and

how quickly the water is rising or falling.

In order to understand this, let's compare three different scenarios.

So the upper graphs shows the voltage across the capacitor and the bottom was the current flowing through

the capacitor in the fourth scenario, where the voltage is steady constant.

So it's a DC voltage.

The current through the capacitor is zero.

So if the voltage is constant and it doesn't change the Robinho current flow through the capacitor,

we could see this scenario in the previous course when once the capacitor was charged up, no more current

was flowing through the capacitor and the voltage on the capacitor remained constant.

However, right at the beginning, when the voltage changed from zero to five watts, the amount of

current was maximum because there was a sudden change in wattage.

However, after that, the current was fading away as the capacitor charged up.

Now, in the second scenario, you can notice that the voltage across the capacitor rises linearly.

In this case, there's a constant rise in voltage, which causes a constant current to flow through

the capacitor.

In the third scenario, however, the voltage across the capacitor rises inconsistently, meaning that

firstly the voltage increases linearly, causing a constant car to flow, then swiftly rises, which

causes a sudden change in current and higher notice.

Something interesting.

So even though the voltage on this portion is higher than previously, the current drops.

Why?

Because the current through the capacitor depends on how quickly the voltage is rising or falling and

not on the amount of voltage applied across it.

If the voltage across the capacitor swiftly arises, a large positive current will be induced through

the capacitor as lower rise in voltage across the capacitor equates to a smaller current through it.

If the voltage across the capacitor is steady and unchanging, no current will go through it.

So this is ugly and gets into calculus.

It's not all that necessary until you get into the time domain analyses like or filter design and other

gnarly stuff.

So skip ahead to the next course if you are not comfortable with this equation.

So the equation for calculating Corinda through a capacitor is this one.

And this is an equation to calculate the current, which flows through a Cabaser based on the capacitor

s. and the voltage we that builds up on the capacitor plates.

However, this equation only applies if the voltage increases or decreases linearly.

If you want to calculate the current through the capacitor, when an AC voltage is applied, then you

will deal with reactants is something that we will learn very soon and you will most probably be interested

in an effective value, which basically it's an average current flow through the capacitor over a period

of time.

The divi over DETI part of that equation is a derivative, a fancy way of saying instantaneous rate

of voltage over time.

It's equivalent to saying how fast is voltage going up or down at this very moment.

The big takeaway from this equation is that if voltage is steady, the derivative is zero, which means

current is also zero.

And this is why current cannot flow through a capacitor holding a steady DC voltage.

Now, the truth is, you will most probably never have to use this equation to calculate current through

a capacitor, you should probably use this, for example, to calculate the current through the capacitor

where the voltage rises from zero was to what's the voltage change from zero to five.

Watts is not instantaneous only in fairy tales.

So here you could apply this equation, but even here you would rather calculate the time for the capacitor

to charge up hennaed the current through it.

We will discuss about something called Arcy Time Constant in another chapter, which is much more interesting

and has much more use in electronics than this equation here.

But now let's see how the capacitor behaves when an AC current is passing through the capacitor and

Nardizzi.

See you next course.