All right, guys, so what happens when an alternating current is applied to a capacitor?

We already know that when a capacitor is connected to a DC supply, then the capacitor starts to charge

up to the supply voltage and then the voltage across the capacitor reaches the supply voltage.

No more current flow through it, however.

Then we apply an AC current.

Well, things change in an AC circuit.

The capacitor are constantly charging and discharging respectively in order to understand this.

Let's look at the sinusoidal waveform for AC capacitance.

So we had the circuit on the left and this diagram on the right.

This diagram shows the voltage across the capacitor and the current through it that AC current is passing

through it.

As you can see, the capacitor allows AC current to pass through it.

However, as you might have noticed, the car doesn't really follow the current or current doesn't follows

the voltage.

However, you want to see if we look for a second at a purely resistive circuit where we have only one

resistor and we apply an AC voltage, you can see that current is directly proportional to voltage,

meaning that the higher the voltage, the higher the current.

The change in direction of current in AC supply does not effect resistor behavior.

So the current in the resistor will rise and fall according to the voltage as it rises and force the

voltage and current in AC raises the circuit reached maximum therefore to zero and reach a minimum.

At the same time they are said to be in phase as they rise and fall at exactly the same time.

So the voltage varies over time, of course, because it's AC.

But if we take the voltage at a certain point, we can apply ohms law to calculate the current at that

exact moment in time.

However, in a purely capacity circuit, as you can see here, the voltage across the capacitor lags

the current by 90 degree.

Or we can say that current leads the voltage by 90 degree.

So the voltage and current are not in phase anymore, like in a purely resistance's grid.

Instead, there is a 90 degree fascias between voltage and current.

Why is there a phase shift?

Many people know that capacitor creates a phase shift of 90 degree.

However, they don't understand why that happens.

I will explain it in a minute.

But now let's head to our simulator for a minute.

This circuit shows the response of a capacitor when driven by alternating current current yellow and

voltage in green across the capacitor, are shown in this scope here.

Now, as you can see, capacitor doesn't have a problem passing current through it, however.

And now let me stop the simulator for a minute.

The current leads voltage so that current peaks, the capacitor is just starting to be charged and voltage

zero, the voltage across the capacitor peaks the current stops and begins to flow in the opposite direction.

All right.

So in order to understand why is there a phase shift between voltage and current, or we need to know,

is this equation that we have talked about in the previous course?

In the previous course, we understood that the amount of current through a capacitor depends on both

the capacitors and how quickly the voltage is rising or falling.

If the voltage across the capacitor swiftly rises, a large positive current will be induced through

the capacitor.

A lower rise in voltage across a capacitor equates to a smaller current through it.

If the voltage across the capacity is steady and changing, no current will go through it.

So if you look at the Fazer diagram, we can see that the voltage is maximum, the current is zero and

the voltage is zero.

The current is maximum.

The reason of it is because when the voltage is at maximum or better, say the voltage is around the

voltage, there is no significant change in voltage across the capacitor.

Right.

So from here until here, the voltage doesn't really change.

As a consequence of this, the current flowing through the capacitor will be zero.

Remember that the charging current is directly proportional to the rate of change of the voltage across

the capacitor.

So let me explain this again.

As Applied Voltage reaches its maximum peak value at ninety degrees for a brief instant in time, the

supply voltage is neither increasing or decreasing.

So there is no current flowing through the circuit.

Now, the biggest variation of the voltage actually happens in this portion.

So this is the portion when the voltage actually changes the fastest.

As a result, the current will peak.

Then the voltage is zero volts because this is the portion of the AC signal, then voltage is changing

the fastest.

So I'm sorry if my explanation was too raw.

I'm more than happy to to your questions if you have any doubt.

The big takeaway of this course is the capacitors block DC and allow AC Current to flow through it.

Then we can say that in a purely capacity, a circuit, the alternating voltage lacks the current by

90 degree.

The next course will be very important for it, understand?

So grab a coffee and I'll see you there.