All right, folks, on this course, we learn about an important concept called impedance and reactance

of a capacitor.

If you understand this understanding, doctors will be a piece of cake.

So in an easy circuit in which the applied voltage signal is continually changing from a positive to

a negative polarity at a rate determined by the frequency of the supply, as in the case of a Siiri

voltage, for example, the capacitor is either being charged or discharged on a continuous basis at

a rate determined by the supply frequency.

As the capacitor charges discharges occur and flows through it, which you probably didn't know is restricted,

or, in other words, is limited by the internal impedance of the capacitor.

This internal impedance is commonly known as capacity reactance and is given the symbol EXI in ohms.

So unlike resistance, which has a fixed value, for example, 100 on the one km, 10 km, etc. capacity

reactance varies with the applied frequency.

So any variation in supply frequency.

We have a big effect on the capacitors capacitive reactance value.

So Capacity Reactance has the ticker symbol X C and has units measured in almost the same as resistance.

It is calculated using the following formula where XY is the capacity reactance measured in Ohmes P,

as we know, is around three point one four two F is a frequency in Hertz and C is the capacitance in

Farad's since capacity reactance.

Just like resistance is measured in ohms, the higher the capacity reactance, the lower will be the

current.

But remember, we are talking about AC current here and not see the simplest definition of the capacity

reactance would be this one.

So capacity reactance is a measure of a capacitors opposition to AC current.

So like resistance, it is measured in ohms.

But reactance is more complex than resistance because its value depends on the frequency of the signal

passing through the capacitor.

Reactance is also inversely proportional to the value of capacitors, like, for example, the value

of X C at any frequency will be less in larger capacitors than in smaller ones.

All capacitors have infinitely high values of reactance of zero hertz, but in large capacitors, directors'

force to a lower level at much lower frequencies than in smaller competitors has.

Larger capacitors are preferred in low frequency applications.

But once we get into analog filter designs, you will see how important capacity reactance is.

But for now, what do you have to remember for is that the current flow through a capacitor is inversely

proportional to the frequency.

And you can see based on this graph that the higher the frequency of the AC signal, the lower the capacity

of reactors.

Moreover, we can present the effect of very low and very high frequencies on the reactors of a pure

AC capacitors as follows.

So if the frequency is zero, which basically means we are talking about DC, the capacitor acts as

an open circuit since the reactants of the capacitor is infinite.

So one or zero is infinite, right?

This is just basic math.

On the other hand, when the frequency is infinite.

Of course, this is just pure theoretical.

The capacitor acts as a simple wire and the current in this case is maximum.

It's like the capacitor is not even there.

Now let's do a simple exercise to solidify what we have learned so far.

The exercise says that we should calculate the capacity of reactance value of two hundred twenty nine

of hertz capacitor at the frequency of one kilohertz and again at the frequency of 20 kilohertz.

The capacity reactants, as we know, is equal to one or two P FC.

Right?

So let's replace all the normal values and we get one or two P times one thousand.

So one kilohertz is 1000 hertz, right?

Times two hundred twenty nine of hertz, which is 220 times 10 at the power of minus nine.

In this case, the reactance will be seven hundred twenty three point four ohms.

Great.

Now let's calculate again the returns when the frequency is 20 kilohertz.

We apply the same equation and we get the returns of thirty six point two ohms.

Therefore, it can be seen that as the frequency applied across the 220 nano capacitor increases from

one kilohertz to 20 kilohertz, it's reactance value EXI decreases from approximately 723 on to just

36 ohm.

And this is always true as capacity reactance XY is inversely proportional to frequency.

Or in the last course we will take a more practical approach where we will simulate three different

circuits that has the same capacity.

Not only the frequency of the power supply is changing and you will see how current differs.

Any circuit.

See you there.