Here in the simulator, there are three circuits which are identical, except for the frequency of the

source, each circuit has the same capacitor where the frequency of the signal in the first year it

is 15 hertz, then 40 hertz, and lastly, 80 hertz.

What is capacitive reactance?

Again, capacity reactance is a measure of a capacitors opposition to alternating current.

So the highest opposition to current happens in the First Circuit since the reactors with the capacitor

is the highest compared to the other two in the Second Circuit with the frequency of the source is higher,

which will result in lower reactors.

Hence the amount of current flow is higher than in the First Circuit.

Last but not least in the Third Circuit, the frequency of the signal is the highest.

As a result, the opposition of current flow will be the lowest since the reactors of the capacitor

is the lowest.

Hence the current will be the highest compared to the other two.

So the big takeaway from this simulation is that capacitors are able to pass higher frequencies more

easily than lower ones for high frequencies.

The reactors, the capacitor, which is measured in ohms, is lower as a result, more current flows

in the circuit.

Remember what I have just said?

It will be very useful once we get into analog filter resize.

Now, basically, the course here is over, however.

I see.

Want something to explain for you?

These currents that you see here are the peak currents of the sinusoidal waveform.

So if I start the simulation, you can see that the coral that is measured is the peak.

In other words, is the maximum current that flows in this area with these corals.

Sometimes might be useful, sometimes not.

However, if you are interested in a time average current, then you can go with.

Show our Ms.

Average of the current.

So the root mean square value of the current is around sixteen point seven million.

We already talked about voltage arms, right?

Current arms is basically the same thing in the sense that it's the equivalent steady DC current, which

gives the same effect on the load that is passing through.

Now, my question to you is, how do we find out this average current?

So why is there 16 millions of rmx currently in the circuit and how to calculate it?

Well, this is where impedance comes into play.

The equation to calculate the arms current is this one.

It's we are a mess over impedance.

We are.

And this is zero point seven times the peak voltage.

So it's zero point seven times five words, which is three point five words, great.

So we know we are a mess, but what is this impedance we know from Ohm's Law that is equal to voltage

divided by resistance.

And this equation here is kind of similar to that, meaning that this impedance, as you might have

guessed, is measured in ohms as well.

Impedance is a measure of the overall opposition of a circuit to current.

In other words, how much the circuit impedes the flow of charge.

It is like resistance, but it also takes into account the effects of capacitance and inductance.

Now, to understand what this impedance is, let's imagine that in place of this capacitor we have a

resistor.

In order to find the arms current, we have to calculate the total resistance to the circuit.

Right.

So it would be we are a mess divided by this resistance plus this resistance.

Right.

Since they are a series.

So the total impedance of the circuit is a sum of these two resistors.

Now, because we have a capacitor, one might say that the total opposition of Corot in the circuit

would be this resistance, plus the reactors of the capacitor, they can be added up together since

both are measured in homes and this is actually not very wrong, sees the result would be very close

to the correct one.

The problem, however, is that since the capacitor causes a phase shift between the current and voltage

resistance and reactors cannot be simply added up to give impedance, instead, they must be added as

vectors with reactors at right angles to resistance as shown here.

So the overall impedance is equal to the square root of, ah, of the power of two plus the total reactors

or the power of two where the other reactors is equal to the reactors of the inductor minus the reactors

of the capacitor.

Since we don't have any doctors in the circuit, this is actually zero.

So the final impetus would be square root of our or the power of two plus minus the reactor and sort

of capacitor or the power of two.

Not raising a negative number of the power of two will be a positive number.

Right.

So we might as well get rid of this minus sign.

And finally, we get the equation that we were looking for.

The only thing left to do is to calculate the reactors of the capacitor for a frequency of 80 hertz.

So it will be one or two P times, eight times, 30 times then at the power of minus six, which is

equal to sixty six point three ohms.

As a result, the total impetus will be square root of 200 homes or the power of two plus sixty six

point three ohms and the power of two, which is equal to two hundred ten point seven ohms.

As a result, three point five volts divided by two hundred ten point seven is sixteen point six million,

which is exactly the current that the simulator measured for us.