In the previous course, we could see that capacitors are able to pass high frequencies more easily

than lower ones, and the reason of it is because for higher frequencies, the reactors of the capacitor,

which is measured in ohms, is lower.

Hence more current will flow in the circuit.

Now, let's do a kind of similar simulation, but now the frequency of the three sources will be identical,

except the capacitors value will change.

And here we are, as you can see, the frequency of each source is identical, the voltage that the

output is also the same, which is firewalled.

The difference is the size of the capacitors in them.

Now, we know that a capacitor has the ability of being able to store an electric charge of electrons.

The electric charge, as we know, has the same Burcu, and it's equal to the capacitors capacitance

times the voltage across it.

So based on this formula, we can see that the capacitors ability to store these electrical charge between

its plates is proportional to the applied voltage and the size of the capacitor.

The greater the capacitance, the greater will be the charge stored on the plate of the capacitor.

So again, a larger capacitor can store more charge, so the current will be greater for a given voltage.

The capacitor on the top is the largest, so the current flow is the greatest in this circuit.

Now, actually, there's another way of thinking, we know that the capacity reactance is equal to one

or two P times F times C based on this equation, you can see that the higher the capacitance, the

lower the reactors.

Lower reactance means that the overall impedance of that circuit, which takes into account both the

resistance and the reactors of the capacitor, will be lower as well.

As a result, more currently will flow in the circuit.

Now, I want to mention that these simulations that we are making are only good for you to understand

the behavior of capacitor in real life.

You want see capacitors or circuits like these because these are pretty useless, right?

So I say, let's take a look at the first practical use of a capacitor in a real world scenario.