All right, so one popular use of a capacitor area world is for coupling and decoupling.

If you have learned something so far that might be that capacitor blog DC and they allow AC signals

to pass through this property of the capacitor is useful in situations where we want to copper or link

together only the AC signal from one circuit to another.

The capacitor blocks the DC signal from entering the second element and as a result only passes the

AC signal it is emitted seems to abstract.

Well, let's take a real world example.

So, as I said, Coplin capacitors are useful in many types of circuits where AC signals are the desired

signals to be output, while these signals are just used for providing power to certain components in

the circuit but should not appear in the output.

For example, a capacitor normally is used in an audio circuit such as the microphone circuit.

This symbol is used in electronics as a DC power source.

In this case is a five words power supply.

Then we have a transistor in series, a microphone and a capacitor.

So this power is used to give power to the microphone, which needs DC power to operate.

The 10 km resistor is used to limit the current flowing through the microphone, but notice that this

DC voltage is also connected to the rest of the circuit.

So this signals must be present in the circuit for powering purposes.

However, when a user talks into the microphone, the speech is an easy signal, right?

And this signal is the only signal.

In the end, we want passed out where we pass the AC signals from the microphone onto the output device,

say speakers to be played or a computer to be recorded.

We don't want to pass the DC signal.

Remember that this signal was only to power parts of the circuit, which in this case is the microphone.

So we don't want it showing up on the output recording or the output.

We only want the AC speech signal.

So to make sure all the AC passes while the DC signal is blocked, we place a Coplin capacitor this

liquid in a more professional way.

We can say that this capacitor filters out the DC noise that might be coupled along with the audio signal.

Also, notice something interesting here.

Instead of using a non polarized capacitor, this capacitor is a polarized one indicated by this plus

sign here.

The positive leg of the polarized capacitor should always be connected towards the higher positive voltage,

in this case towards the microphone output pin, because this is the direction from which the analogue

signal as well as the DC voltage comes.

So now you might ask, why do we need to use a polarized capacitor where we could just use a non polarized

capacitor and spare a headache from thinking which leg towards which direction?

I should point that that's a valid question.

However, remember that the reason why electrolytic capacitors exist in the first place is because they

can offer higher capacitors than their non polarized counterparts.

Early on, it was discovered that the oxides of certain metals like, for example, aluminum and tantalum

in particular made good electrics and could be made very thin through a chemical process, orders of

magnitude thinner than other dielectric such as waxed or oiled paper and plastic film.

Therefore, the Athletica pastor was invited to provide high capacitors in a reasonable volume.

Unfortunately, the chemical process requires that the voltage across the capacitor must have only a

single polarity.

So these capacitors are polarized.

Now, the other question you might ask is that why do we need to use such a high capacity in this liquid?

Can't we just put a long polarized capacitor before lower capacitance?

After all, they do the same thing.

Yes, that's right.

They do do the same thing.

But how they do that same thing is important.

So the reason why we use a microwave capacitor is because of its reactors that offers them the audio

signal passes through it.

So probably you knew already what humans can hear.

Sounds starting from 20 hertz up to 20 kilohertz.

In a good case, the audio signal coming from the microphone will be in this range as well.

So in these 20 hertz and 20 kilohertz range, as a result, we have to choose a capacitor that offers

low reactors for these range of frequencies.

Now, let's calculate the reactors with a capacitor when the signal is one kilohertz.

Well, the reactors of the capacitor will be 159 ohms.

The upper limit would be 20 kilohertz.

So the reactors in this case would be around eight ohms.

Just as a tip.

I usually just type in Google capacity reactors calculator and I just insert the capacitors value and

the frequency and it gives me right away the capacitance.

All right, we have found out that for one kilohertz signal, the reactors of the capacitor is 159 ohm

and 420 kilohertz, we get eight ohms.

These reactors is.

The good enough as it won't attenuate the signal if you were using a non polarized capacitor before

lower capacitance, say, 100 hertz.

Indeed, the copying effect will happen so this won't pass through it.

Only the AC, but this AC signal will be attenuated because if you do the reactance calculation for

the 100 alpha capacitor, the reactors that it offers will be too high for the specified frequencies.

It's like placing a big fat resistor in series, which will decrease heavily the coral floor, or in

other words, it will lower the overall power that this circuit will output toward the next circuit.

And that's why if you don't want to decrease the output power of the circuit, make sure you use a capacitor

big enough so that its reactors is low for all the frequencies from 20 hertz up to 20 kilohertz.

Alright, one more thing.

This liquid can be connected to an amplifier stage, for example, that will amplify the Speaker's speech

and that amplified speech will be able to drive a bigger, loud speaker.

Seems like a pretty realistic scenario, isn't it?

In the future we will understand how transistors work, which will be the second active component that

we talk about through the courses, and you will learn how you can amplify analog signals of all types.


