All right, guys, in the previous course, we talked about coupling capacitors, as the name implies,

if Kopper's or linked together two circuits, allowing only the AC signal to pass through while the

DC signal is blocked.

In this course, we will learn about the coupling capacitor, which is also called as bipeds capacitor.

However, there's a slightly difference between a bipeds capacitor and a decoupling capacitor, even

though they are connected in the same way.

Don't worry, it's very easy to understand the difference between the two.

While coupling capacitors are used to pass through the AC component while blocking the DC component,

a decoupling capacitor removes the AC component making for a more pure DC component.

The copying capacitors are useful in many types of circuits where noise needs to be cleaned up in a

DC power source.

In a perfect world, the power you get from a DC power source such as a DC power supply would be a perfect

DC signal containing no noise on it.

However, in a real world, few DC signals, especially from power supplies, come out in this way.

The DC signal from power supplies often have noise and look like this.

So basically the signal is usually imperfect.

Then, coming from a power source, there are all types of interferences.

WI AC signals come into play, superimpose on the DC signal and make the signal noisy.

What we want to do is decouple the noise, which is the easy signal from the DC signal allowing for

a much cleaner DC signal in order to place a capacitor in a circuit for decoupling.

The capacitor is connected in parallel with the power supply.

This is a very simplified circuit just demonstrating the coupling capacitors.

So it's really simple.

The DC power supply gives power to this load.

This load can be anything but let's assume that it's an integrated circuit that requires DC power to

operate.

How does this the copper capacitor work, you might ask?

And how does it cleans up the DC power source?

We already mentioned that nothing in electronics is ideal and these signals can have some AC noise superimposed

on them that might cause some problems for the working behavior of the integrated circuit.

So let's assume that this DC power source outputs a noisy DC signal which will looks like this using

a decoupling capacitor as shown here.

This will remove this AC noise that is present on top of the DC signal so the integrated circuit will

receive an almost perfect clean DC signal.

How is it possible?

Well, this is because of the reactors of the capacitor.

A capacitor, as we know, has almost infinite reactors to discuss.

In other words, it has almost infinite resistance, so it doesn't allow these signals to pass through

them.

So one terminal of the decoupling capacitor is connected to the positive side of the circuit and the

other terminal is connected to the ground in a more professional way.

We can say that as a decoupling or bypass capacitor offers near infinite reactors to these signals,

the busy signals won't get shunted to ground.

However, the capacitors allow AC signals to pass through since they will have much less reactants right,

so they can pass through the decoupling capacitor and get shunted to ground.

These capacitors provide a low impedance path for high frequency signals, which represents the noise

on the power supply.

As a result, cleaning up the DC signal.

And this is how the coupling capacitor, the Kopper's AC signals from DC signals.

Now let's take a more realistic example where we power.

And I see from a source that can be five to three point three words.

Whatever D I see, if you are curious, is an ultra low power three axes accelerometer that will be

connected to another circuit using these pins.

However, notice what happens on the other side of the circuit.

We have three decoupling capacitors in parallel which will work together to filter out the tiny voltage

ripples or AC noise.

However you want to say that might be harmful for the delicate.

I see.

Now, the question you might ask is why do we have three capacitors instead of just one?

This is a slightly different scenario than the previous example.

Here we are talking about different values of capacitors for bypassing and decoupling.

Now they are very good technical reasons why you would actually want to.

With multiple capacitors in parallel for decoupling, in particular, different values and different

types of capacitors, but before we ask for that, we have to actually understand what is bypassing.

Now, in an ideal world, you would not actually need bypassing, it would be completely pointless because

let's take a look at the cheap like this, OK?

It does whatever this guy happens to do.

We've got a battery or a power supply here.

It doesn't really matter.

And we've got a load.

So it's consuming power.

And this chip does various switching things like this.

And that's what I'm showing here with these two Masterfoods in there.

No, I don't want to explain how muscles work because that would go away beyond the scope of the lecture.

The point here is that these see does some internal switching as it drives the output being high and

low rapidly.

It doesn't really matter.

Now, let's assume that we had five worlds supply.

Let's go.

Old school.

That is three point three words, rubbish.

And these five words.

In an ideal circuit, you are going to get five words directly on the pin of this chip here because

there is no internal resistance in the power supply, there's no internal resistance in the battery.

Whatever you happen to be using, there is no resistance on the PCB traces that you are using.

There is no inductance.

There's nothing.

It's just an ideal world and our ideal chip.

And in this world, you would not need any bipeds capacitor.

Unfortunately, we don't live in an ideal world.

In a real world, unfortunately, everything has a resistance.

Everything has inductance, everything has capacitance.

All these parasitic elements take your power supply, for example.

You can get the perfect power supply.

It's going to have some equivalent series resistance with it.

And your PCB trace is going to have also some resistance.

There's going to have inductors.

Every piece of wire has inductance no matter how small.

So what's going to happen if we have no bipeds capacitor on our victim of our chip?

Well, our firewalls, if the chip is doing nothing and it's just static, OK, yes.

We will get a straight five words on there.

However, the chip switching is doing stuff.

There's lots of capacitors inside.

The chip capacitance takes switching currents and things like this.

So you get all these pulses of current.

So once the chip starts working and doing stuff like switching currents high and low, the input power

waveform might jump up and down like this depending on the switching inside this chip.

And we've got our load as well.

Our load is powered through the OFCCP in through these Masterfoods that actually drive the load, whether

or not sinking current or saucing current.

So that's going to contribute as well to in distorting the input signal.

And hey, depending on the value of these traces here, you can actually get significant deep's and

can drop below the operating voltage of the chip and start causing strange, weird things.

This is sort of like a gross generalization, but this is what sort of things can happen if you've got

no local by passing on your chip.

I want to note that one of the big problem is not so much the resistance of the treacy's.

It's more to do with the inductors of the treacy's, especially the higher frequency your chip got.

Even in that high frequency can be a megahertz or so.

Look at an old computer board from the 1970s.

You know, you got hundreds of chips on them and they've all got a bypass capacitor next to each particular

chip.

Because of all the inductors is of all the power treacy's going there.

And remember, we won't go into details, but remember, an inductor actually resist changing current.

So if your chip or your load suddenly decides it needs to switch, your daughter goes, oh, no, I

can't change that quickly.

I just can't do it.

So you are going to get these huge dips and problems and all sorts of stuff so all becomes very nasty.

And your firewalls apply for your chip is not the solid power supply you are expecting.

So that's why we add in a bypass capacitor and here it is right up as close as possible to the pin of

the chip, because why does it have to be as close as possible?

Because you are trying to avoid the inductors in the line and every trace has inductor.

So the further away you put the bypass capacitor from the chip, the greater the inductance and causes

all sorts of problems.

Then your chip starts to switch at high frequencies.

So the goal of then you are bypassing is to try and produce a low impedance low in the.

The supply element, remember, capacitors, store charge, so they charge up and then then your chip

switches suddenly and it requires a high amount of current.

It comes from the capacitor instead of way, way back on the other side of your PCB, depending on how

far your DC power source is located, which has all these long inductance is in series and all sorts

of stuff that comes directly from the local capacitor.

So it minimizes the amount of inductance and resistance in series of it so that the bipeds capacitor

can supply the growth of current that your chip suddenly needs without being affected by the rest of

your PCB layout and all the other paralytics.

So to recap, in a way, bypass capacitors act as a very small local power supply for ISIS if the power

supply temporarily drops its voltage, which is actually pretty common, especially when the circuit

is powering, is constantly switching its load requirements, a decoupling capacitor can briefly supply

power at the correct voltage.

This is why these capacitors are also called bypass capacitors.

They can temporarily act as a power source, bypassing the power supply.

Now that we understand this, hopefully let's go back to our circuit and see why we usually place multiple

bypass capacitors of different values and types, but since the court's got too long, we will demystify

this in the next course.