All right, so why do we need to have multiple different values and different types of capacitors?

Aha, trap for young players.

This is where we have to actually get into what the capacitor does and it's impedance versus frequency.

So an ideal capacitor would look like this.

It's just a Cabaser.

Unfortunately, nothing in this world is ideal.

And so is capacitors, a real capacitor inside the capacitor.

So a real capacitor has an equivalent series resistance, which you might be familiar before.

So it's a constant resistance value essentially in series with the actual capacitor itself.

But crucially, also inside the capacitor is a little tiny bit of inductance, which might come from

the geothermal of the capacitor, plus the construction, inductors and various things.

And that's called the Yes of the equivalent series inductance.

So a real capacitor is far from an ideal capacitor.

It's an RLC circuit.

What happens with Oracy Circuit?

I know we didn't cover RLC circuits yet, so this course might be difficult to understand at first,

but bear with me.

So again, what happens with Earth is circuit.

Well, you get resonance and you get all sorts of funny things happening.

And as you should know from your basic component theory, capacitors and inductors, they actually have

an impedance or what's called a reactance or capacity reactants and inductive reactants.

Now, I know we also did uncover inductors yet.

So if you think that this is too difficult to understand, just kandak after you learned about oracy

circuits and doctors.

However, if you know what capacity reactance is, inductive reactance is a piece of cake to understand.

And that's everything you need to know.

So far about inductors, they have what is called an inductive reactance.

The equation to calculate an inductors reactance is similar to the capacitors one.

So they knocked not reactors is noted Excel and it's equal to duppy times frequency times inductance

just like a capacitor, have a capacitance inductors have what's called inductance.

So the point here is that both components have like an AC resistance, so to speak.

And this resistance varies with the frequency of the AC signal passing through it.

So capacity reactance is inverse with relation to frequency and inductive reactance goes up with frequency.

And we're going to have a total impedance of the capacitor, which is equal to ESR plus capacity reactance

plus inductive reactants.

So this is the total resistance of the capacitor.

Now, if you look at this graph here, we've got the impedance of the capacity of the bipeds capacitor,

it's in terms of course, so the impedance in ohms versus the frequency here.

And as you can see, we get these for a real bipeds capacitor or a real capacitor.

We just happened to be using in a bypass situation, a real capacitor is going to have a response curve,

something like this.

And this is sort of like an industry standard way to show that actually it's not a straight line like

this because, of course, the capacitor will actually have an infinite impedance.

But down at DC here.

Now, if the capacitor did not have any doctors in it at all, of course, this line would not be here

and you would just get a slow going down like that, which changes with the frequency, which we already

know this from the previous courses.

Now, however, and this is crucially important since real capacitors also have that little inductor

in there.

It's tiny.

It could be like picocuries or something like that.

But at a particular frequency, it's going to start to matter.

Now, the capacity reactance operates like this, but at some particular frequency here, which is the

resonant frequency of this Oreste circuit using a standard resonance formula where the capacity and

inductive reactants are equal.

And that is going to be the resonance point at this point.

The reactors of the inductor starts to dominate instead of the reactors of the capacitor.

So starting from the original frequency, the aurora impedance with the capacitor starts to go back

up, which, as you might have guessed, it's a very undesirable thing to happen.

You don't want this thing to go up at higher frequencies.

You want to be down like this.

Why?

Because as we talked about before, you want the energy to come directly from the capacitor with no

effect whatsoever, with no impedance in the paths, no inductance in the paths, etc. and then you

start adding this real inductance either inside the capacitor itself or outside of the capacitor.

If your PCB traces with those little bonding wires, everything else, then this can be a real problem.

Your impetus starts to rise and your bipeds capacitor won't act like a good bipeds capacitor to these

higher frequencies.

And of course, these higher frequencies in modern devices, say for an FPGA, for example, which have

huge densities in a huge amount of switching, huge amount of logic, multiple areas, and they take

huge amount of current and everything else.

And they operate in very high frequencies like, you know, hundreds of megahertz at these high frequencies.

You are going to be in serious trouble.

And, you know, once you learn about four your series, you will be shocked that even if the operating

frequencies, say, 50 megahertz square of signal, this signal can have AC sine wave components or

frequencies much higher than 50 megahertz.

Now, if it happens that your bypass capacitor sees AC signals low frequency higher than this resonant

frequency, the bypass capacitor won't be able.

Even if it's charged up, it won't be able to deliver that amount of energy that the AC needs that specific

moment.

It just can't.

Now, I think I mentioned before, not only you have different values here, but you have different

packages as well, because the package actually makes the difference.

As a general rule of thumb, the smaller your package gets, the lower inductance it's going to have.

So let's assume that is part of impedance versus frequency is four zero six zero three package.

You know, somebody package and then if you've got zero eight zero five package, the curve will look

like this and four zero four zero two package.

The curve will look something like this.

There's actually going to have different values for the different packages.

So it's actually better for higher frequency stuff to use the smaller packages.

But of course, the big question here is that why do we need to use different values?

Well, as you can see on the graph, different values have remarkably different frequency characteristics,

as you would expect.

The bigger the value of the capacitor in this case, say one Microfit, for example, is going to have

a resonant point at a much lower frequency.

So it's going to cover the lower frequency range.

So it's going to have a lower impedance at a lower frequency.

And then you are going to have different values for assuming like this all have the same package.

For example, zero point one micro Ferid is going to have a resonant point at a higher frequency and

the ten and then third capacitor will have a resonant point at a higher frequency.

So what do you get and to answer to the question, why do you use multiple bypass capacitors, it's

so you get the lowest impedance across the largest frequency range possible.

So if you've got all three of these values in here, your final curve is going to look like this.

So you've got a much broader lower impedance, so you've got a more effective bipeds capacitance over

a bigger frequency range, and so that's why you place multiple bypass capacitors like shown here.