Hello, when we come back in this course, we will learn about what a moving capacitor is and we will

also build a circle with it because theory by itself means nothing if we can't apply it in real world.

So it's moving.

Capacitors are frequently used in power supply circuits where we want to convert an AC signal to a DC

signal.

Basically, without capacitors, you couldn't convert any voltage to DC voltage.

Then a steady DC voltage is needed and is necessary as moving capacitor is the right component needed

in order to smooth out the fluctuation, I mean the fluctuating signal to make it more steady.

So a prime example of when it's moving capacity is used is in conjunction with a rectifier circuit.

But what is the rectifier circuit, you might ask?

Well, a rectifier circuit is an electrical circuit that converts alternating current, which, as we

know, periodically reverses direction to the current, which flows in only one direction.

There are more types of rectifiers, OK, such as halfway rectifiers, footway rectifiers, bridge rectifiers,

etc. Don't worry, we will go through all of them once we learn about diodes.

Why?

Because each and every rectifier is built using diodes, an electrical component that we haven't learned

yet.

So in order to understand how this moving Cabaser works, we have no other choice but understand, at

least a little bit how a rectifier works in the first place.

So let's pick the most easiest one, which is the half way rectifier.

A halfway rectifier consists of only a single diode in series with the AC power source.

A resistor is used to limit the current flow, but the main focus here is this diode.

So what is a diode and how does it work?

Where you see diodes are one of the simplest but the most useful of all semiconductor devices.

Diode is a terminal electrical component that converts current primally in one direction.

So the most basic feature of a diode and also the most important one is that it conducts current in

only one direction.

So it has low, ideally zero resistance in one direction and high, ideally infinite resistance in the

other direction.

So let's go to our simulator and see a diode in action.

All right.

Here we are.

So in this circuit, we have an AC power source and a load.

The load receives the entire AC signal and notice that the current periodically reverses direction.

Obviously, since we have an AC what here, how fast the current changes direction in one second depends

on the frequency of the power source.

Now, the final goal of this circuit or lecture is to convert this a signal into a DC signal so that

our Lord here will receive instead of an AC voltage, a DC voltage.

In order to achieve this first, we have to place a diode in our Sirikit like shown here.

Now, notice that the singer that the Lord receives has been changed, basically the negative part of

the AC signal has been removed entirely.

Why?

Because as we have just said, a diode converts current in only one direction.

The diode will only conduct current when it's forward, biased.

In other words, it will open up and conduct current when the anode terminal of the diode is higher

than the cathode with around zero point six.

So that's something else you have to know about diodes a diode depending on the diode.

Okay, because there are many types of diodes out there, signal diodes, shote, diodes, power diode,

etc..

But a general rule of thumb, if I can say like that, an ordinary diode we cannot current when the

voltage on the anode here is higher before around zero point six volts than the cathode.

Now, if I stop the simulator.

You can see that the positive peak voltage of the signal has been reduced by around zero point firewall's,

which is the voltage that is dropped across the diode, each and every diode will have a voltage drop

across it.

And the magnitude of this voltage drop will depend on the forward voltage drop specified in the datasheet

of the specified higher.

So, again, our goal is to convert this AC voltage coming from this power AC power source to a DC voltage.

We are already halfway through it because we got rid of the negative part of the AC signal.

So basically and practically, of course, the current already flows in only one direction.

So we can already say that we have achieved what we wanted, because even though the voltage here is

a pulsating voltage, this will result in a pulsating DC current.

Now, obviously, this this is pulsating.

Voltage is not what we want in the end, is not suitable to power any load or an integrated circuit.

For example, we want a DC voltage as clean as possible without big fluctuations in voltage.

This is where moving capacitors comes into play.

But how do we place these capacitor?

Well, we place it in parallel with the load or with the AC power source.

This moving capacitor always has to be placed after the diode, otherwise it won't work.

Now, usually when choosing a moving capacitor, an equality capacitor is used from anywhere from 10

micro Farad's to a few thousand micro Farad's.

If you've played enough with the simulator, you know that there is no electrolytic capacitors here

in the simulator and actually there is no point in adding them in a simulator since we can modify the

value of the non polarized capacitor as high as you want.

So the point is, the greater the amplitude of the fluctuations and the greater the waveform, the larger

capacitor will be necessary.

Now, this 10 microworld capacitor is obviously too low for our five words AC voltage.

So let's increase its value to say 100 microworld.

All right.

Well, the signal that the Lord receives starts resembling to an actual DC voltage that we are familiar

with.

Right.

Of course, there are some fluctuations, but it's not that bad.

If you want a much smoother DC voltage, you should increase further up the value of the capacitor.

Now, understanding how this movie Cabaser works is very easy, as we already know, capacitors have

this ability to store charge, right?

They can charge up to the supply voltage, which in this case is firewall's.

And so in this case, the capacitor is fully charged up when the voltage across it is five words.

So when the input AC voltage reaches its peak value, which is five words, the capacitor is said to

be fully charged once the input voltage goes below firewalled so it starts decreasing from five volts,

the charge in the capacitor will be released through the load itself.

And in this way the capacitor is able to provide charge when it is not available.

I mean available from the rectifier and accordingly the voltage varies considerably less than if the

capacitor were not present.

However, note that in real life the smoothing capacitor will not provide total voltage stability.

So there will always be some variations in the voltage.

In fact, the higher the value of the capacitor, the greater the smoothing and also the less current

that is drawn by this load here, the better the smoothing.

So a further point to remember is that capacitor smurfing does not give any form of regulation and the

voltage will vary according to the load and any input variations.

What does this mean?

Well, let's increase the value of the capacitor to, say, 500 microworld.

Now, you might say, well, this this is what it is, almost perfect and we can just leave it like

that, even if in theory this will work in practice.

This is a very bad practice.

Why?

Because the voltage is not regulated.

What does that mean?

If I now lower the value of the load, which can be an ISP or another circuit?

In that case, we will talk about an input impedance.

So if I lower this value.

You can notice that the D.C. voltage that we had before is not that smooth anymore, Duse, nasty,

undesirable voltage fluctuations came back and in a real world application, you would want a power

source that keeps the output of this voltage as constant as possible, regardless of the load that it

drives or the input impedance of the circuit that it powers.

And this is where voltage regulators comes into play.

But that's something we will learn in the future once we learn about people or transistors.

Thank you for watching and see you.

And of course.