Hello, and welcome back to a new chapter.

I'm glad you made it out to here in this chapter, we discussed about various alternative circuits using

bipolar transistors.

There are so many ways to talk about, and as you may have noticed, the complexity of the circuits

is gradually increasing, and I think that the beginning of threshold will be passed soon.

And that's why I will create another course for intermediate level intended for people who acquire the

basic knowledge necessary to understand the more complex liquids circuits that are necessary to know

for everybody who is even just a little bit passionate about electronics.

All right.

So this course, we will talk about what is known as current source.

As the name implies, a cardinal source is a secret element that maintains a constant current flow regardless

of the voltage developed across its terminal earth.

This voltage is determined by other circuit elements that is an ideal constant.

Current source continually provides a specified amount of current, regardless of the impedance that

it is driving.

And as such, an ideal current source could, in theory, supply an infinite amount of energy.

So just as a voltage source may be rated, for example, as five walls or 10 words, etc..

A current source will also have a current rating, for example, three empires or 15 empires, or,

in this case, 10 mg.

Ideal coastal resources are represented in a similar manner to what resources?

But this time, the current source symbol is that of a circle with an arrow inside to indicate the direction

of the flow of the current.

To understand the advantage that this current force brings to the circuit, let's look at this little

circuit first.

This is a five or DC power supply, which drives a simple load represented as a resistor.

It can be a motor, an LCD.

A size doesn't really matter.

All these loads will have an internal resistance.

Imagine a scenario.

Then you have multiple loads that you want to plug in to the circuit, but you are to provided the same

amount of current to each one of them.

The current that is flowing in the circuit right now is 25 millions.

And how to calculate that?

Ohms Law says the current is equal to voltage divided by the resistance, and the total resistance in

the circuit is to 100.

Here you have heard this what exhaust would have a tiny internal impedance inside of it?

But the simulator handles these as an idea of what is sauce.

So five divided by 200 will be equal to 25 grams.

Now imagine that we change the load to another one and we want these 35 millions to flow across our

new load.

The new load resistance will be five kms.

Well, unfortunately, this is a tough workout because the crop has been reduced to one millions, and

this is where constant current sauce will help us out.

So what we see here, this current source provides a constant millions of current to this part of the

circuit.

We have several switches here, so we can't change the path of the current that is flowing down to ground

and each resistor is different in value.

So basically, we can change the loads more conveniently using these switches.

We also have an oscilloscope hooked across the circuit where the Green Line measures the voltage and

the yellow line measures the current.

All right, the current flowing in the circuit right now is Tamilians, right?

And let's change the loads using these switches.

As you will notice, even though the voltage developed across the circuit is changing, no matter how

I combine or switch the loads, the current flowing in the circuit is a thief that millions.

That is perfect exactly what you wanted, right?

But how does this magical component has the ability to do that?

What does it has inside that it makes or special?

Hmm.

To understand that, first, we have to understand the difference between a real world and an ideal

carbon source.

An ideal source is a current source that supplies constant current to circulate, despite any other

conditions present in this illiquid and ideal current source provides this constant current with 100

percent efficiency dues.

If an ideal current source is a 12 Million's current source, for example, the load we receive the

entire 12 millions without any being lost.

Unlike an idea of what the source that has zero internal resistance, an ideal current source has infinite

internal resistance, and this allows it to act as a 100 percent efficient source of current.

Why do you think an ideal current source has an infinite internal impedance before we see the reason?

Let's understand disagreed.

So what do we see here?

We have our current laws, a advisory in parallel with it and then other resistance, which represents

our load.

What do you think this register is?

If you guessed, congratulations.

This is nothing gas, but the internal impedance of the current laws like a voltage source where the

internal impedance is connected in series of it, the internal impedance of a current source can be

represented as a resistance in parallel with it in our simulator, of course.

You won't see this resistance anywhere because this resistance is basically inside of the current thoughts.

But visualizing this resistance as an external component will help you understand why we strive so hard

to meet this resistance to have an infinite impedance.

Now we have to realize the power source, whether voltage or current is to supply power to a load in

a fifth grade so that a load can be turned on and to do is operate.

So we want to ideally supply 100 percent of the power from the power source for the load.

This is power transfer in order to supply 100 percent of the power from the source to the load.

We must allocate the resistances in the circuit approximately so that the load receives this power.

This is called current division.

Current always stays the path of least resistance dues in order for current to go to the path of least

resistance.

We must set up the source and load so that the source has much higher resistance than the load.

This will ensure that the current travels from source to load.

And this is why we constructed the idea a current source to have infinite internal resistance.

This will ensure that current will flow out of it and take the path of least resistance, which will

be the load since the load will not have infinite internal resistance when the current source has infinite

internal resistance.

The output current from the source will not change.

Despite changes in resistance value from the load, the current will always want to escape out of its

infinite resistance to a lower resistance.

And this produces a current output graph, as shown here.

Since the internal resistance of the current source is infinite, any changes in resistance value of

the load have no effect on changing the steady current value.

The evening's resistance is dominant and causes no current change, despite fluctuations in load resistance.

Now, let's examine a circuit before an idea and thoughts, because the current source has infinite

impedance.

The current from the source is looking to escape and go through a path of least resistance, which is

the eight ohms load all of the current from the current source, which is, as you can see, 100 millions

flows through the eight ohms through this to load.

And this is the ideal case and is 100 percent power efficient.

Now, let's examine the circuit to a common source, this coral source has then make a form of resistance,

which is high enough to give a very close current to the full value of the current source, which is

100 millions.

However, the current source will not give 100 percent of its power, and this is because the internal

resistance of the current source will still eat up some of the current and lead to current waste.

This can be calculated using current division.

The thought gives out 100 millions, right, and Clarendon is divided up between the 10 the Golems Lord

and the eight ohms Lord.

The formula to calculate how much current goes through the eight ohms load is the following.

Don't be scared.

It's nothing new.

It's just a simple voltage divider equation.

But this time we are interested in the divided current and voltage.

So the result will be ninety nine dot nine nine nine nine millions.

If the result would be one hundred millions, we could say it's 100 percent power efficient.

But this is not the case.

Just think about how worse the result from the current division would be if the impetus of the current

source is lower.

So that's the reason why we should strive to be the current sources with less high impedance as possible.