The simplest form of a constant currency liquid is a simple register.

If the voltage of the source voltage is much higher than the voltage where the current is required,

then the output current will be almost independent of the load.

Under these circumstances, the current can be calculated very easily.

Earth, it is approximately the power supply voltage divided by this resistance because the voltage

on the load is much smaller than the voltage on the source.

So in order for this current law to work, which means to provide a constant and the known current to

the load, the resistance of the Lord must be much lower than the resistance of the current force.

If this relationship between the two is true, then the current that will flow in the circuit is approximately

the power supply voltage divided with this resistance dividing five walls with these 10 kms.

We get the current or 500 migrants.

So the difference between the desired current and one is only 10 microns.

Hmm.

Not the death for the beginning.

If we want the current of one million arms to flow across this load, we would set these resistance

to approximately five kms.

As you can see, the difference is between one million and nine hundred sixty two microns is 38 microns.

If we want, let's say, two point five million to flow across the load, we would set this resistance

to two kms.

This time, the difference between 2.5 million and 2.3 million is 200 microns.

So the difference between the design current and the actual one is considered pretty big.

We start to cause a problem and we are only at 2.5 years.

What if you want more or less?

You can see it's not precise and it will never be.

And the lower this resistance gets, the more influence these load resistance will have upon setting

the operational current.

There are several drawbacks to the simple resistor current source.

To make a good approximation to a current source, you must use large voltages with lots of participation

in this resistor.

This means that variations in load may cause some current variations if sufficiently high values of

source voltage are not available.

In addition, the current isn't easily programmable like, for example, control over over a large range

by means of a voltage somewhere else in the circuit.

So the question is how can we improve the circuit?

Happily, it is possible to make a very good clarion source before Transistor.

It works like this applying a base voltage, the base wattage higher than 0.6 volts ensures that the

emitter is always conducting.

So the emitter voltage is equal to the base voltage minus 0.6 woods.

So the emitter current is equal emitter voltage divided by the emitter resistance.

In other words, we consider the emitter current is equal to the base voltage minor 0.6 Walsall, divided

by the emitter resistance.

But since the emitter current is approximately equal to the collective current for large beta, the

greater current will be approximately equal to the base voltage minus 0.6 walls or divided by the emitter

resistance, which, as you can see, it's independent of the power supply voltage.

As long as the transistor is not saturated, so the base voltage, which is provided by this voltage

divider is equal to two point five.

Oil's diameter voltage is one day a drop less, so it's one point nine voids.

And if you divide these 1.9 voids with the emitter resistor, we get one point nine million of current

through our load.

Now you can play with the base voltage to set the operating current, and you also have the advantage

that the input impedance of the transistor is high, so it doesn't require high current to drive the

circuit, which is ideal in case you want to connect the base to a pin of a microcontroller, which

happens to be a digital to analog converter.

You can notice that even if I change the value of the load, the current is not changing at all.

So this means that we can provide the constant currency to multiple loads with different dependencies.

There is only one problem here.

Usually, power supplies have fluctuations in voltage, which means that if the power supply rises or

decreases, the result from the voltage divider will vary too, which means nothing goes.

But the current through our load will vary, too.

How can we design a circuit that even if we have power supply fluctuations, we are able to maintain

a constant current through our load?

In order to remove any fluctuations in current arising from changes in the supply voltage, it is a

simple matter to add some regulations to the basic circuit.

This is achieved by replacing the resistor here, which was used for voltage revision before Zenner

or voltage reference voltage.

The breakdown voltage of the Zenner is a 3.3 volts, so the voltage across the Zenner will be three

point three volts.

If enough current is driving it, and of course, if the voltage that has to be regulated is higher

than the breakdown voltage itself.

Now, even if we have fluctuations in the power supply voltage, the current through the load is concerned.

And that's exactly what we wanted to achieve.

The design of this current thought is good, but not good enough.

The problem with this current source is that you have to apply a base voltage that is offset by 0.6

volts from the voltage that you want to appear across the emitter resistor.

And of course, it is the latter that sets the output.

Current is the same offset issue as with an emitter follower.

And you can't use the same trick to bring about a proximate cancellation of the offset in situations

in which that is a problem.

Let's have a look at this circuit.

It has our standard current source output stage Q2, with the current said by the voltage across the

emitter resistor, which is equal to the emitter voltage divided by the emitter resistance.

So key to his base needs to be obese emit a voltage higher, which is the 0.6 watts offset.

But that's just what the ppm being put forward does anyway.

So wala the voltage of Q to remettre winds up being approximately equal to the input.

What is that?

You apply?

And so the output current is simply the input voltage divided by the emitter resistance.

If no ifs, ands or buts or base emitter offsets, that's cute.

We have to point out, though, that this is not a particularly accurate cancellation because the two

transistors really in general have different collective currents and therefore somewhat different base

emitter drops.

But it's the first order hack and a lot better than nothing.

The magic of operation amplifiers that I will publish in the next course, intended for intermediates,

will provide a way to make current sources in which the output current is accurately programmed by the

input voltage without the base emitter voltage offset.