When we talk about common collector, common meter and common base configurations, the terminal that's

name that's common is the one that isn't used for input or output is the one that's used as a ground

or common terminal by both the input and output of the circuit.

Admitted a follower that we have talked about in the previous chapter, the base terminal of the transistor

serves as the input diameter is the output, and the collector is common to both.

It's tied to the power supply.

Rail has its name.

We know that the limiter follower is the current amplifier that has no voltage gain, and there are

many instances, especially in digital electronics, where an increasing current is required.

But no increase in voltage is needed in such a situation.

And then meter follower can be used.

For example, consider the two stage amplifier circuit as shown in this figure.

Suppose these two stage amplifier has the desired voltage gain, but the current gain of these multi-stage

amplifier is insufficient.

In this case, you can't use an emitter follower to increase the current gain without increasing the

voltage gain.

Another application of the emitter, a follower, is for impedance matching.

We know this in the meter follower has high input impedance and low output impedance.

This makes the emitter follower an ideal circuit for impedance matching.

This figure shows the impedance matching by an emitter follower.

Here, the output impedance of the source is 120 kms, while that of load is 20 ohms.

Then Meter Follower has an input impedance of 120 kms and output impedance of 22 ohms.

It is connected between high impedance source and low impedance load.

The net result of this arrangement is that maximum power is transferred from the original source to

the original load.

When the limiter follower is used for this purpose, it is called a buffer amplifier.

So, Emmett, I'll follow what is good for certain tasks, as explained before, but what happens when

the input signal is very low in voltage?

And do you want to amplify that voltage instead of current?

What if you want to amplify the voltage of a weak signal coming from an MP three player so that we can

drive a reasonable big loudspeaker if it?

We will do more complex circuits where we will learn about amplifiers pages, where a move, voltage

amplification and current application is required to drive the loudspeaker.

But for now, let's concentrate on how can we design a circuit which provides voltage amplification?

This circuit is called the common emitter amplifier because the emitter is tied to ground and it's not

used as input or output.

This time, the output voltage is taken from the connector and not from the emitter.

The first cop shows the poor signal, and the second scope shows the signal on the collector.

What is the first thing that we have to consider?

The external power source that is available for us is 20 volts.

This means that the peak amplitude of the output signal can be no more than 20 volts, right?

Our input signal is only five hundred milliseconds, and you want to drive this one mega ohm impedance.

But for that, we will have to amplify this 500 million volts to a higher voltage.

Again, we are not seeking to amplify the current since anyway, we are driving a high impedance load,

which doesn't require big currents.

This lot can also be the input impedance of a second circuit, which will further process our input

signal, and it will be easier to process it since the capital of the input voltage will be amplified

using the circuit.

The first question is how big should the amplification be since the beta of this transistor is 100?

We could theoretically amplify the input signal by a 100, but this would result in output signal of

50 volts, right?

How about an amplification of 10?

So we transform an input signal of 500 million Allston output signal of five volts?

That sounds good, but how can we set the amplification of the circuit?

First of all, we have a better here, right?

This means that you ought to get rid of any DC voltage as you want only the AC voltage or five or to

pass through if you want later on, you can connect an emitter forever to boost the current.

So we will have two stages of amplification, and you can drive a much lower impedance than this one

mega load.

Let's imagine a scenario where they put voltages to what this means that we turn on and off the transistor.

Every time the voltage on the base reaches the threshold of zero point six volts, if we visualize the

voltage on the collector, the voltage is a constant 20 volts even when the transistor conducts because

there's nothing to pull this voltage down the ground in order to pull this, what is down to ground

whenever the transistor is turned on?

We have to insert resistor at the collector.

Now there's all this drop of 20 volts across this collateral register.

So the connector voltage is able to speak up and down between the ceiling of 20 volts and the floor,

which is zero volt.

This will make it possible for our output signal to swing just like here the input.

Now what value should this collateral register have?

If we want the maximum current of two millions to flow on the collector using ohms law, we will choose

this resistance to be 10 kilos.

As you can see, the output voltage jumps up to the maximum voltage of 20 volts because the amplification

of the circuit is very high.

In fact, if you are curious, the amplification of the circuit right now is given by the division between

the collector resistors and emitter resistance.

We don't have emit resistance, right?

So the gain is 10 kilograms divided by zero, which is undefined.

Actually, there is a small built-in, a resistance called stress resistance, which, as you might

guess, it's very low.

You can look on the internet.

How to calculate this building emit a resistance, but if you assume that it has a resistance of 20

ohms, the gain will be 10 kms divided by 20, which is 500.

This is obviously too much.

So what we can do to reduce this game is to add an emitter resistance.

If we want a gain of 10, then the emitter resistance will be one kms.

So the division between the Kyoto resistance and the emitter resistance is 10, which represents the

gain of the circuit.

The output signal still doesn't look very good.

So what can we do?

Let me change the voltage of the inparticular back to 500 volts and placing a resistance in series if

our signal is the last thing we want to do because our signal is already weak and we don't want it to

make it weaker.

Instead, let's place a capacitor to get only the clean AC voltage that you are interested in.

All right, the transistor is not biased.

We should provide the DC bias voltage enough to turn this transistor on.

We don't want our input signal to turn the transistor on the right.

It can't even turn the transistor on since it's less than 0.6 volts.

And even if it were higher than the transistor would be turned off during the period when the input

signal goes from negative up to zero point six walls, which would represent the massive information

loss.

So that's bias the base voltage at one point seven volts using two registers, which will form a voltage

divider.

I already calculated using the voltage divided equation that this resistance has to be one hundred ten

kms and the other one should be 10 kms.

The 110 kms and 10 km distance is the transistors base at about one point six volts so that the average

value of the input is moved up to that level.

What you have to understand is that now the transistor works in forward active mode, which means that

the quieter current is not influenced by these collateral resistance anymore.

The Colletto current is said by the bass current, and the beta of the transistor seems the collector

current is equal to the base current times 100, so a nine point seven times 100 is 973 micrograms.

Make sure that you choose the value of these biased resistances so that it will provide an optimal current

and voltage on the base, the voltage on the base should be a little higher than the threshold voltage

of zero point six wolf, just enough to open the transistor but pay attention to not saturated the transistor.

A transistor is saturated when the base voltage is around the same voltage as the collector voltage.

On the other hand, if the current on the base is too high, you risk to burn up the transistor.

Since the critical and my exceed the maximum current allowed, the base emitter junction acts like a

diode.

So the diameter will be one day a drop lower than the base since the transistor stays in forward active

mode.

The quattro current will be 100 times the base current.

The emitter voltage fluctuates with the input voltage, and so the current across the one gilham resistor

fluctuates proportionally since the greater resistor has the same current across it but has 10 times

the resistance.

The greater voltage swings 10 times as much.

And with phase opposite to the input.

Just remember that if the output signal is taken from the collector, the signal will have opposite

phase as they input.

This means that when they input signal goes up, the signal on the output goes down.

But don't worry.

Usually, this doesn't represent the problem.

On the other hand, if the output signal is taken from the emitter, that would signal and the input

signal have the same fees.

I didn't mention, but the second cop shows the signal on the load and not on the collector.

As you can see, the output voltage is almost 10 times higher than the input signal.

Seeing his output voltages four point eight world and they put these five hundred million dollars.

So congratulations, we have just built our first signal amplifier stage.