Hello and welcome back in this course, the thinkwe that we are going to talk about is called US Car

and murder.

This record is called US murder because if we were to have the circuit, the left part looks similar

to the right part.

Current mirroring is an important principle in integrated circuit energy.

All the connected transistors in and I see work in the principle of car and mirroring from all the amplifier

circuits to operation amplifiers and all sorts of ices that exist have at least one car and mirrors

circuit.

So what I'm trying to say is that there are plenty of applications in which a car a mirror is required.

But what exactly makes this configuration so useful and special?

Decorum, you know, sacred gains its name because it copies or mirrors the current flowing in one act,

inviting in another.

Keeping the output card and constant regardless of loading if the circuit has the ability to mirrored

the current.

Then there has to be an input terminal where the desired current comes in and that current words will

be copied on the other branch where the load is connected.

The input of the circuit is represented by a DC power supply before registering a series.

Try to look at these two as a different circuit.

We somehow provide the current to this branch.

Your imagination is the only limitation.

The register here is used to limit the current, which means, in this case, without it, we would

blow up this transistor.

And why is that?

Because the base voltage would be on fire, which means that the base emitter diode will turn on and

practically there is nothing to limit the current.

Only the the emit a resistance, which, as we know, it's very low.

So the basic horror middle configuration is shown here, which comprises two transistors, one of which

has the base and collector connected and the other does not.

The base connection of both transistors are then linked.

US are diameters which are also taken to ground.

So let's call.

The coroner comes from the input as programming current because this current, we said the current flow

through our load, as we see here, the current on the connector is point three millions.

And how can we calculate that?

It's very important for you to understand that because the base of this transistor is tied to the collector?

These transistor practically acts just like a simple diode.

So if you replace this transistor with a simple diode?

You will notice that the current didn't really change.

Well, the current is higher with zero point two million because of this particular diode is not exactly

the same as the base emit a diode.

It has a slightly lower voltage drop across it using the second law of kickoff.

We can easily calculate the current US.

It's firewalls minus the voltage drop across the diode, which is 500 million volts or divided by this

resistance.

Now, the same equation applies when the transistor is back, but this time the current will be firewalls

minus the base emitter voltage drop, all divided by one kilogram.

However, this equation does not take into account the fact that both transistors draw a certain amount

of base current and the current for both bases also flows through this resistance.

Does the current equation is the programming current is equal to the current flowing when the collector

plus two times the base current, assuming that both transistors are exactly the same, the same currently

flow on these transistors base has the same current on the collector because the creator current is

equal to the base current times beta.

This means that even if we change the value of the load, it won't have any effect on the current flowing

on the collector.

So using this configuration, we can successfully mirrored the current from one branch to another.

These two transition parameter is often adequate for most applications.

However, it has some noticeable limitations under many circumstances.

For example, the current or the second branch can vary with the change in the output voltage.

And this means that if it's the voltage to some other value in real world, this current will vary a

little bit.

This is because there is a slight variation of basic meter voltage with the collector voltage at a given

current.

Another noticeable limitation is that the color matching is dependent on transistor matching, so the

color of the mirroring is dependent upon the matching of the transistors.

Often, the transistors need to be on the same substrate if they are to accurately mirror the current.

So if the two transistors having the same port number are not manufactured side by side at the same

time, they will have slightly different characteristics.

Of course, in the simulator, we won't see this type of problem since both transistors are perfectly

the same.

The third problem is the base current required by any bipolar junction transistor.

This base currently small for high gain transistors, but it is still present and is still a source

of error.

So in order to overcome some of these issues, more advanced parameter circuits can be developed and

used.

As we mentioned before, there is a mismatch between the programming current and the output mirrored

current caused by the unavoidable presence of the base current for the two transistors flowing through

this resistance.

The problem is that we can't really see this mismatch right now because in this simulator, both transistors

are exactly the same, but in real world, that is very hard to find.

We have high gear transistors, though the difference is small and sometimes negligible, but sometimes

it must be recognized and minimized.

So the base current is provided by the current coming from the inputs, right, which is the current

passing through this resistance.

And as you said, the base current is a source of error in the calculations, and we want it to reduce

this.

A simple way to reduce the current flowing through this resistance is to add a third transistor to the

circuit.

Now, the base clock for Q1 and Q2 is also the emitter current of Q3, right?

And only the base current for Q3 must still flow through this resistance.

This effectively reduces the base current error by a factor of beta plus one.

Adding Q3 to the circuit will change the programming.

Current little bit sees Q1 no longer has its collector and base connected together.

Instead, we have an extra bizmeter voltage to account for for this circuit.

With the programming, current is equal to the power supply voltage minus two time is based 10-meter

voltage, all divided by this resistance.

If we add a Namita register to a single transistor amplifier, we get negative feedback or what is called

us degeneration in the previous course, we have seen that by adding the limited resistor to the transistor,

we could said the gain of this amplifier because the gain of the circuit is equal to the collector assistance

divided by Amitai resistance.

So even though the transistor has a maximum gain of 100 hours, the rocket will not amplify the input

signal by 100.

Because the emitter register impedes that, we wanted a gain of 10.

So we have chosen the values correspondingly.

It's very important for you to understand that the diameter assistance has purposes other than stabilizing

the gain.

Then meter resistance improves many properties of the common emitter amplifier.

Of course, for the expense of gain.

This resistance acts like a negative feedback for the circuit, a feedback that we notice the transistor

whenever the current flowing from collected emitter rises.

And what do I mean by that?

Let's imagine a scenario where the current flowing on the collector emitter is rising for some reason.

And what happens if the emitter current starts rising?

The what is drop across the emit, the resistance starts increasing to right.

And what happens then?

Well, if the voltage across the emitter resistance rises, it means that the base emit a voltage starts

decreasing right.

The base voltage is constant.

So if the emitter worth it is increasing, the base meter voltage will decrease, which means nothing

else.

But a transistor will start slowly to turn off in order to prevent the current to rise.

So I hope you got the idea.

If you have any doubts, don't hesitate to leave a comment below.

One of the reason the current flowing from the connector to emit are can potentially arise is because

of temperature.

The temperature of the transistor increases.

The kinetic current will increase to the presence of the emit.

The resistance provides negative feedback, which stabilizes the circuit against changes in temperature,

supply, voltage, etc. The only downside of using a limited resistance is that the gain is reduced.

But the advantages exceeds the downsides, since it gives a better game control temperature stability.

It also improves the frequency response like, for example, it gives a flatter past boundaries, past,

etc. In digital circuits, where you are operating the transistor from cutoff to full saturation emitter,

the generation is.

It is rarely used.

All right.

So as I have explained before, emit the resistors provide a negative feedback while coronavirus without

emit a resistors work well in integrated circuits because the parameter differences of the neighboring

transistors are insignificant and so is the difference in temperature.

Their performance is not satisfactory, then built from discrete elements.

If this resistance is removed, the bias current will grow, with temperature causing a nickel increase

in the output current.

So exclusion they resistance has the function to stabilize the current mirror current against the temperature

changes.

All right.

So the last thing I want to show you is a popular configuration of Clara Miller.

In fact, this configuration got the name of your son, Karen Miller.

I don't know why it's quite like that.

Probably the guy called us.

Wilson came up with this idea to add a third transistor here, as you might have noticed.

Wilson Clara Miller doesn't have omitted resistances, and the reason of that these third transistors

already provides a negative feedback for the circuit.

So how does it work?

A small amount of current flowing through this resistance provides a base current for Q3, enabling

Q3 to conduct current the bulk of this current Earth with any transistor flows from collector to at

meter.

At the same time, the meter current of Q3 becomes the programming current for the current meter formed

by Q1 and Q2.

As we have already seen when studying the basic parameter circuit, the quality current of Q1 is equal

to the quality of current of Q2, and so the meter current of Q3 is equal to the quarter current of

Q2, plus two times the base current.

This arrangement provides a form of negative feedback loop, if for any reason, the collective current

of Q3, which is the output current driving the load right.

So if this starts to increase, the quality of current of Q2 must likewise increase, and the quarter

current of Q1 will mirrored that increase.

This will increase the voltage drop across this resistance, which will in turn reduce the base voltage

of Q3.

So this Q3, which provides a negative feedback, prevents the output current rise, which gives a better

stability for the circuit.