Hello and welcome back in this course, we did a study about differential amplifiers because it's important

to know how to amplify signals and getting rid of noise in the same time, noise introducing signals

is always a source of problem.

When designing circuits and annoying, how to get rid of them is important.

Differential amplifiers are important in applications in which weak signals are contaminated by pickup

and other mysterious noise.

Examples include digital and radio frequency signals transferred over twisted pair cables, audio signals,

local area network signals and numerous other applications.

Differentially amplifiers are universally used in operation amplifiers or the operation.

Operational amplifiers are differential amplifiers because of their input configuration.

So when the first word the signal is connected to the input terminal and another voltage simulates connected

onto the opposite input terminal, then the resultant output voltage is proportional to the difference

between the two input voltage signals of V1 and beat you.

We didn't learn about operation amplifiers yet, but I just wanted to show you that the differential

amplifiers are the main building block of an operational amplifier.

All right.

So the open fire, which amplifies the difference between the two input signals, is called as differential.

That fire before we understand how the circuit works.

Let's pack this circuit into a block diagram.

All right.

So this is the block diagram of a differential amplifier here.

We want to invite you are the two input signals of the differential amplifier and V0 zero is a single

ended output of differential amplifier.

In an ideal differential amplifier, the output voltage zero is proportional to the difference between

the two input shortages, which means that the higher the difference between the two inputs, the higher

the output voltage.

As the name implies, the circuit amplifies the difference between the two input signal.

The equation is very easy.

The output voltage is equal to differential gain times we want, minus we do.

You might ask yourself what is the purpose of amplifying the difference between two voltages?

It doesn't make any sense.

Well, it does make sense because otherwise we wouldn't talk about the circuit.

To understand why we use differential amplifiers, it is required to be familiar with how the signals

are transmitted over the wires.

We have no choice but to use the symbol of an operation amplifier.

But just look at it as the block diagram that we have seen before, which has two inputs and one output.

Now, let's imagine that these two wires are Ethernet cable carrying digital data from one point to

another.

This source can be a router, and the destination is your Ethernet card, which resides inside of your

computer in order to carry the information from the router to your Ethernet card.

A twisted pair cable is used just for your information.

A twisted pair is made up of two isolated copper wires that are simply twisted together.

When we talk about twisted pair, you have to remember that both copper wires carry the same information.

The only difference is that the information in one wired is transferred with the opposite phase.

As the image shows here, the information that we are sending and for the ease of understanding is just

one person.

As you can see, both copper wires carried the same information, but one of them is out of phase with

180 degree.

Now, when the two parties get into the different certifier, does he agree to amplify the differences

in wattage between the two and the resultant signal looks like this?

So that both loyalties will be differential game times.

We are miners.

Since this has opposite polarity, the voltage is negative, so the output voltage will be differential

gain times we want minus minus we do, which will be differential gain times.

We 1+ we do.

This is great.

Nothing fancy have happened.

We did nothing good but amplify the information consisting of one pulse.

The trick is here.

See, as the cable from the outer to the computer is long due to electromagnetic induction.

A lot of noise is generated in the wires and cable.

This is obviously a bad thing.

The noise is big enough can disturb our information, which will cause misinterpretation of the information.

However, the good thing is that the noise that is generated on the two wires must have the same fees.

No matter how hard you try.

It's not possible to introduce noise into the twisted pair so that the phase of the of one noise in

one wire is opposite to the noise or on the other wire.

Both wires inside of a twisted pair are very close to each other, so the noise that is introduced must

be the same, right?

And now let's recall the purpose of the differential amplifier, the depression amplifier amplifies

the difference between the two input signals.

Since the noise generated is identical on both lines, the output voltage will be differential gain

times we want, minus we do.

But this time we want minus v2 will be equal to zero.

This means that if we were to combine just like in real life, the input plus with the noise added on

top of it, the signal would consist of only the interest of the information without any noise added

to it.

So thanks to the differential amplifier, we managed to transfer the information over long distance

to amplify the signal and in the same time, getting rid of any noise generated on the cable.

How cool is that?

One more thing I want to tell you, and it's very important for you to understand.

So then both inputs change voltages together.

That's a common mode.

People change for the mentally.

The term coma mode implies that the signal of the two input terminals offer a differential amplifier

is identical in both magnitude and phase.

On the other hand, a differential change like here is called normal mode, or sometimes differential

mode.

A good amplifier has a good common mode rejection ratio, and the common mode rejection ratio of a differential

amplifier is a metric used to quantify the ability of the device to reject common mode signals like,

for example, dues that appear simultaneously and in phase on both inputs.

Common mode ejection ratio is measured in decibels for an ideal operation amplifier.

This value is infinite, but for a practical operation amplifiers the value of common mode rejection

ratio used to be in the range of 80 to 100 decibels.

So common more rejection ratio is a measure of how good the differential amplifier is getting rid of

the noise induced immobilize, both having the same magnitude and fees.

If you are curious, the common mode ejection ratio is defined as 20 times log base.

Turn of 80 divided by AC 80 is the differential gain, whereas AC is called a common mode gain of the

amplifier.

So basically, we are talking about two different gains here.

The financial gain is the gain of the amplifier when a differential input is applied.

Like, for example, an input one is out of phase with input two and the Commonwealth gain is the gain

of the amplifier.

Remove the inputs supplied are equal.