Before we start calculating all the components necessary for this adequate work, let's just understand

at the beginning what is this work we're doing?

We have the two inputs in one in the interview and output is taken off the collector.

The output is equal to the voltage difference between the two inputs, right?

This is the common Maude case where both inputs are the same in voltage as well as in fees.

This is just like the case when the noise is induced in both inputs, having the same wattage a phase.

So in this application, there is more useful information that we want to transmit and amplify because

the purpose of this application is to show you how the output behaves when both inputs are the same.

As you mentioned previously, there are two types of gain that we have to account for.

The first type of gain is the differential gain.

And the second type is the common gain.

There is no point in talking about the financial gain right now because we don't have differential signals.

The inputs, the other type of gain is the common gain, which is the gain of the circuit where both

inputs are the same.

So how big should the common gain or common amplification, if you want to say like that?

Well, since the main property of a differential amplifier is to get rid of the noise induced remove

inputs, the common gain in ideal case would be zero.

The common law of change in output is much less than in differential mode, but as shown here, the

output still fluctuates more than we would like.

The output signal is one will pick to pick, and the input signal is to walls peak to peak.

So as you can see, the common gain is basically zero point five since the output picked up.

Amplitude is half of the input.

If we change one of the input voltage to, let's say, two walls instead of one, then we can start

talking about differential again.

We will shortly see how to calculate the differential gain.

But if we look at the output, the differential gain is so high that the voltage starts clipping the

power supply voltage and ground.

So in conclusion, we can say that differential gain is much, much higher than common, more gain.

Now let's put the voltage of this back to one world, and as you can see, the output is almost like

a DC voltage.

The problem that we are facing right now is that the output voltage still has some fluctuations.

Ideally, this should be a clean DC voltage, if not fluctuations whatsoever.

In order to solve this problem, a more clever circuit has to be designed.

But for that, we have to understand the purpose of each component in our.

Before we do that.

Let's see a much practical, real world use case where an information is added along with the noise

that is already present in the circuit.

All right.

The same circuit.

The only difference is that we feed one of them put before 200 her signal that has a voltage of 100

million miles.

The input signal input one looks like this, and that input two looks like a mixture of 200 hertz and

the 40 year signal.

The form part starts here because as you can see the output, the only clean two hundred hertz is present

without any noise.

So the input two is a mixture of noise and information.

And if you want to get rid of this noise, just feed the first input with the same noise, and the output

will be a noise free signal, of course.

Area of world.

The noise will be induced in both inputs without human intervention.

And also, you won't see applications where the information is fielded only at one input.

In real world applications, information is fed both inputs, but one is out of phase with 180 compared

to another.

So this is how a real world application might look like.

Both inputs contain the same information, but one has opposite feeds.

If the transmission is happening over long distances, noise can be induced in both inputs.

But since the phase and amplitude will be the same, the differential amplifier will get rid of them,

leaving only the noise free information to pass through.

The second advantage is that our two hundred hertz, which has a voltage of 100 million volts, got

amplified very well.

We can talk about a gain of around 130, so the output voltage is 130 times bigger than the input voltage.

All right.

Let's see how the circuit works in more detail.

There are two cases, so we'll treat them separately.

The first cases differential a mild case, which is the case where an input one right is the input two

falls by the same amount.

Where an input one rises, they put two falls.

There is more voltage across the left one ketone resistor as or more current.

This means that there is less voltage and current across the right one kilometers east to right.

It adds up the same voltage and current through the 75km receptor.

It adds up to the same amount of current because this resistance is trying to sink the same amount of

current.

So if I go over this resistance, you can notice that the current is almost constant.

But there are still some fluctuations in current.

Now, if there is a reduced current flowing through this right transistor, this means nothing else,

but the output will start to rise, right?

There will be less voltage drop across this resistance, so the output will start to rise towards the

power supply voltage.

Now, when input one force and inputs to rise is the right transistor is turning on more and more,

pointing the output being two towards round.

Or, in this case, to minus 15 volts.

So when you put one force and input you raises, the output falls.

There's a second case, which is the Commonwealth case that he put one and people to rise together.

We already know that if both inputs are on the same voltage and face, the good voltage should be zero,

right?

But why?

So if input one and input do rise together, this means that more voltage and current flows across both

1km resistor, which in turn means more voltage and current across the 75 kilometres as well.

But the 75 kms is a large resistor, right?

And so a small increase in current produce is a large increase in voltage.

So the changing current through the right transistor and the voltage change not put is much less in

common mode than in the financial mode.

Even though the common gain is much less than the differential would gain, unfortunately, the Commonwealth

gain is still not zero.

As you can see here, the output still fluctuates more than we would like.

But no problem because the Silkwood can be improved using a current source in place of the 75km disaster.

One more thing how to calculate the common, more rejection ratio of the circuit.

We can't use this formula here where all one is this or these does little r e is the internal emitter

a resistance of this transistor, which as we know, it's very small and capital r e is the emitter

resistance.

If we assume the emitter intrinsic resistance is zero, then the common mode rejection ratio is equal

to 75 kms divided by one gilham, which is equal to seventy five.

Now try to remember this value because we will compare this value to the common mode rejection ratio

of our improved circuit.

All right.

So this is a very simple resource, but one that doesn't provide current workload or something else.

But this time it seems a constant one point nine million current, so current resources can provide

a constant current, but they can also seeing a constant current.

This is a much better and cleaner design.

As you can see, we got rid of the two meter resistances and we replaced the big 75kg resistance FIFA

colonizers.

Now, if you remember where we studied, the most basic resource, also a big resistance had to be used

compared to the Lord's Resistance.

So a change in lower resistance won't be able to change the current that is provided by the current

source.

But the problem is that the current will always fluctuate a little bit to no matter how big the value

of the register is unless you design a currency like here.

So how did we set these 1.9 million current?

Hmm.

I'm glad you asked.

Don't be afraid by this minus 15 what's here this time?

Look at it like a positive 50 models.

If we look at this as a positive 50 models, then we will notice right away that actually there's a

wattage divider formed by these two resistances.

The output voltage of these voltage divider is minus twelve point four words, so that meter voltage

is one they drop less than the base voltage, right?

So it's minus twelve point four minus 0.6, which will be minus 13 woods.

Now, the voltage drop across this resistance is to avoid scenes.

From this point to this point, there is two was difference.

Now, if this voltage difference, which is a little bit less than two volts, is divided with the value

of diameter resistance, we will get the current of 1.9 million flowing on the emitter.

But since they it'll clarity is equal to the current current, the current will have the same current

on it.

So this is how these current sources are seeing a constant 1.9million because the base voltage will

be always constant, which in turn means the diameter of voltage will be constant, too.

Alright, but why is this kind of thing necessary here, after all?

How does it help us?

Well, let's apply the same signal on both bases.

So I will take this out and connect to the 40 year signal to the base.

Do you observe how better the output signal looks compared to the one that had a 75 km distance here?

The output voltage doesn't change at all.

So we completely got rid of any common signal, so we can say that the common, more rejection ratio

of the circuit is much better than on the previous example.

The 40 year sine wave is not visible at all in the output.

The equation of the Commonwealth rejection ratio is the same, but this time the resistance of our current

source is much higher than the previous 75 kilometres distance here.

In fact, an ideal current source has infinite resistance, right?

So you can imagine that our one is much larger than the 75 kms.

Let me put this fancy puzzle generator back to its place and notice that this time you are using a pulse

generator just to show you how clean the pulse is, are the output.

We use pulse generator instead of sine wave generator like we used to, because these tiny pulses are

more sensible to noises and you would clearly see the distortion of the pulses if the circuit is poorly

designed.

In other words, the common mode ejection ratio would be too low.

So the higher the common more rejection ratio, the better.

In real world application, but I already mentioned that these 300, her signal, which represents our

information, should be president or the other input do the opposite phase, but is just easier to visualize

things like this if the same information is presented with opposite phase or the other input.

It means that an input while rises input your fourth right.

This is what opposite phase means.

Now in differential mode case, which means when input air rises and input your forced by the same amount.

There is more bass chorus through transistor one and less through Transistor two.

There's also a corresponding increase in quick or current.

The total current through the current source does not change, right?

The reduced current to the right transistor causes the output rise so that input one falls.

The input two raises.

The output falls in the Commonwealth case, where an input one and input to rise together.

The current source resists any change in bass currents.

So the emitter voltages rise to match the input changes.

Since Transistor two is collector, current hasn't changed.

The output stays the same as well.

Now you might ask yourself how to choose the value of this connector resistance while connected resistor

is chosen as usual so that we put a quarter at half of the power supply voltage in order to get the

large dynamic range.

In other words, to get the maximum excursion, I already explained what maximum excursion for a signal

means in my previous courses.

So I assume you get it.

If I stop the simulator, we can see that we don't have any pulse.

The voltage is fixed between power supply voltage and ground, which allows the signal to move up to

power supply voltage and down to zero.

All right.

So this is the end of the course.

Thanks for watching.

See you next, course.