Now, let me ask you a question.

Have you ever wondered what's going to happen if we combine the hypothesis if a law passed Fewster?

The result is what we call us then filter.

Why would we do something like this?

Well, if we don't know the frequency response of a high pass filter and then filter and if you combine

these two graphs.

OK.

And from this, we get an interesting frequency response like this one.

Feast your eyes up on this speaker and tell me what you see.

What I see is that a band pass filter passes a certain band of frequencies between a lower and upper

cut frequency while attenuating others.

There are a few things to point out about this figure.

First, the bandwidth is the frequencies that the filter passes.

It is equal to age minus F.L. and is dependent on the design of the filter.

So F agent F are the high cutoff frequency and the low cutoff frequency, respectively.

Second, this filter has two minus three decimal points or cutoff frequencies.

Next.

Notice the labels on top of the picture.

This filter has reduced our bands and a single piece band.

And finally, the slope is a synonym for the Roloff that we have talked about earlier.

So in order to make a band pass filter, basically all we need to do is to put a Lopez filter in series

with a high pass filter.

All right.

All right.

But how to calculate the minus three decimal point of the band pass filter.

As I mentioned, it has to minus three decibel points.

So you first need to calculate the minus three decibel for the high pass filter and then for the Lopez

filter.

For example, if we need to make a filter that passes frequencies from 10 kilohertz to 50 kilohertz,

we can just put a 10 kilohertz high pass and fifty kilohertz Lopez filter together.

Actually, now that I think about it, there's an equation that you should know which is related to

the center frequency.

If someone asked you to calculate at the center frequency of best filter, you can't just use this equation

where F.L. is the lower minus three decibel cutoff frequency point and FH is the upper minus three decibel

cutoff frequency point.

As you can see from this graph to this center frequency, the output signal is at its maximum.

So remember that the center frequency is equal to the geometric mean of the lower and upper cut of.

All right, we've seen how to build a backbeats filter by combining a high passive if Lopez filter.

There's nothing wrong with the circuit and many people use this type of that that's filtering their

circuits.

But but there are some exceptions where the circuit is not efficient in order to understand what I mean.

Let's take an example and let's say that I want to pass all the frequencies that are between 160 eight

hertz and one kilohertz, which would normally go to a calculator.

We enter the low frequency and at the high frequency and voila, we have the desired values.

All right.

Since I'm more of a skeptical person, I don't believe in these values.

So let's check if these values are indeed correct.

We are back with our simulator and we use this feature of it where we can actually see the frequency

response of the filter.

I already built the circuit and now let's try to find the minus three decibel.

I mean, the lower minus three decibel cutoff frequency point.

All right, it's here.

And as you can see, it's around 17 hertz when in fact, it should have been one hundred sixty eight

hertz.

Well, that said, let's see the calculators.

Kevin does.

We have the upper minus three decibel cutoff point to.

All right, well, the upper minus three decibel cutoff frequency, it's correct, it's around one kilohertz

as it should be.

So we can put the conclusion that the calculator does halflings cam does yaye.

Actually, the problem is that with the calculator, it's we have this band pass filter circuit sees

the best band of our desired filter is very, very narrow.

This is actually the Clouzot's frequency response that we can get if this type of band pass filter.

If we cover one of our eyes and we accept this freighter as it is and we actually build a circuit in

real world, we will start crying and we'll put our hair cursing our things.

Why?

Because the output current will be so low that you won't be able to actually drive anything after this

filter.

Why?

Because there's a huge resistor in series with the signal which will lower our current to a point that

this filter is actually unusable.

If you know basic slow theory, you know that current is equal to voltage divided by resistance.

So you can do the math.

You might ask yourself.

All right, all right, hold on.

What if we lower this resistance to an acceptable value, like two hundred oops, sorry, two hundred

and then tweak the value of the capacitor to send back the minus three decibel cutoff frequency point.

Now, as you can see, the upper frequency point is actually too high.

And to decrease these back to one kilohertz as it was before, we actually have to increase the value

of the capacitor.

So let me change this to three hundred and then a third.

And what happened?

The upper cutoff frequency indeed decreased, but with the expense of decreasing the gain of the whole

band to minus 12 decibels.

This means that all the signals with the frequency we find the pass band will be attenuated by minus

12 decibel.

And if we increase the value of the capacitor, the band attenuation will increase further.

Obviously, this type of bentham's filter is not a viable option for our current desire.

So what can we do in these situations like this?

Well, not much, unless you heard about RLC band.

That's Futter.

An oppressive and battlefield filter consists of a register anene doctor and a capacitor using this

configuration, we can actually achieve our goals.

The first minus three decimal point Ezard, one hundred sixty eight hertz, which is correct, and the

next minus three decimal point is at one kilohertz, which is correct, too.

So using an RNC filter, we can actually create a very narrow parse band.

And the reason of that is because of the parallel resonance between the inductor and a capacitor.

When the inductor and the capacitor are placed in parallel or in series, they have a resonant frequency.

These resonant frequencies represented by the following equation where F is the resonant frequency,

L is the inductance in Harris and C is the capacitance in Farad's knowing this equation.

The resonant frequency of these as the pair is four hundred thirteen hertz and notice that this frequency

is actually situated right in the middle of the peak.

All right.

But what is actually the resonance frequency of Sepehr?

Well I won't go into physics and stuff right now.

I advise you to read on the Internet about it, but I can show you something interesting about it.

This example shows what is parallel resonance.

The three circuits have the inductor register and capacitor in parallel.

Notice the value of the components are the same, only the input frequency differs.

Each circuit got a graph which is showing the current flowing in the circuit, and in this case, the

media circuit is being driven at resinous, which causes the current there to be lower than in the other

two cases.

And the reason why the current is the lowest is because when the input frequency matches the resonance

frequency of the AC pair, the importance of the circuit is the highest.

I hope you know what impedance is if not imagining impedance as a resistance that varies with the frequency.

So both are measured in ohms, but impedance is actually varying with the frequency.

All right.

So because there is another frequency, the impedance is the highest, the current is the lowest.

This might confuse you a little bit because we just seen previously that the resonant frequency of the

RNC band Pass Filter is actually situated in the middle of the band.

It makes it easier to understand if we actually look at the circuit as a voltage divider.

Guys, I hope you know about voltage dividers, impedance and other basic stuff.

As I mentioned, this is an extension of my beginner course.

So if things might seem complicated to you, please check out that course and then come back here.

All right.

So the resonance frequency, the importance of the SC pair is the highest, which in turn makes the

output voltage the highest.

And this is why there is another frequency is always situated in the middle of the path that.

Fucking.