In the previous course, we have seen that we can create a better future by combining a hypers and robust

future.

But as I explained before, there are situations where this is not a good option, especially if you

want to build a very narrow perspective.

The best filter came to the rescue, and using this configuration, we could create a very narrow path,

but at the same time keeping the series resistance very low.

The RNC basically had the capacitor in parallel with Dr. Doctor.

But have you ever wondered what's going to happen if instead of placing the two components in parallel,

the museum is, well, let's find out how this new configuration will effect the frequency response

of the filter or.

All right, this time we start with the end of the course and we jump straight into the simulator,

so let's play a game.

I will start the simulator and you have to guess the frequency response of the filter.

Before I start, let me explain what these two graphs are.

So the first one shows the input signals voltage, which will start from 20 hertz, and it will go up

to 60 hertz.

And the second graph shows the output signal, which is taken after the filter.

All right, so let me start the simulator and notice how the output signal differs from that of the

input signal.

So these frequencies that both signal is is the same as the input signal.

But it's not quite five words because but this is significant right now.

Oops.

Notice how that poor signal is getting attenuated and at around 40 hertz, the output signal is fully

attenuated.

And as the frequency increases further toward 60 hertz, Dogbert signal is getting back to normal.

So the question is, how does this frequency response of this particular filter looks like?

Well, it looks like this.

If you have guessed it, congratulations, if not, well, better luck next time.

So this is called this notch filter, but I prefer to call it as a band style filter, like events where

there is a range of frequencies situated between the two minus three decibel points.

The band Stop Filter attenuates all the frequencies.

So it's quite the opposite of a band pass filter.

All right.

All right.

Hold on a little bit.

Exactly why are the signals attenuated inside of a band?

Well, let's try to look at the filter as a voltage, a divider.

In the previous course, we saw that when an answer is placed in parallel with a capacitor, there will

be a resonance frequency which is situated exactly in the middle of the band.

And the equation for that was the following.

When the signal's frequency matched that of the resonant frequency, the impetus of the Arcy pair was

the highest, which means that based on the what is the weather equation, not with voltage was also

the highest in our current situation.

The doctor is placed a series with the capacitor, but this doesn't mean that there is no resonant frequency.

There is, but the equation of it is different.

Before we jump into the equation.

Let's see an interesting thing about Ceres resonance.

This example shows serious resonance, so three identical oracy circuits are being driven by three different

frequencies.

The middle one is being driven to the resonance frequency.

The top one is being driven at a slightly lower frequency, and the bottom one has a slightly higher

frequency.

As you can see, the peak voltage in the middle, a circuit is very high because it is resonating with

the source.

The easy signal generator is set to output the maximum voltage of only firewalled.

And notice that close to the resonant frequency, the voltage is actually amplified.

How interesting it is, right?

So make sure that when you design a circuit, the easy signal as frequency is not close to the series

resonant frequency of the SC pair because it's so it will ruin your day.

Believe me.

The series residents just like the Aperol, what happens when the reactions of the inductor is equal

to the reactions of the competitor?

I hope you know what reactors supercapacitor and the doctor is.

If not, well, imagine reactors as a resistance.

In fact, both are measured in homes, but reactors varies with the frequency.

So based on this equation, the resonance frequency will be equal to one divided by Tupi square root

of L.C.

We can see that threateners.

The new reactors is cancel each other out and thereby making a series Arcy combination act as a short

circuit.

If the only opposition to current flowing series Resonance Circuit being the resistors are.

All right, seems at resonance frequency that you references cancel each other out acting as a short

circuit, this means that the importance of the SC pair is close to zero.

Right.

Based on the voltage divided equation, e f is that two is close to zero.

Well, the output voltage will be close to zero two.

And this is how a few other attenuates signals at Resonant Frequency.

Whoops.

Sorry.

So one more thing.

Looking at the frequency response of a star that filter and sees the first half of the frequency response

of the best operator resembles that of a law passed and the other half resembles that of a hypers.

You might have wondered if we could build this frequency response using First Lopez in Series V for

high pass filter.

Well, that's a good thought.

But the thing is, no matter what order you combine, the law passed with the high test, you will always

get the band pass filter.

If you insist and you really want to build your best later using a law passed at the high pass filter,

you actually have to place them in parallel.

This is also a good option and we eliminated the need of a doctor.

This configuration is called us doing the filter.

And if you find out where that comes from, leave your Asfour in the comments section.

But regardless of this, if you have any type of question related to the course, feel free to ask it

and I will come back to the shortest amount of time.

So one of the disadvantage of using this type of filter is that, well, as you can see, it requires

plenty of components, right?

Second, it cannot create such a narrow band as the RC Notch Filter is capable of.

If you are wondering how to calculate the frequency of these filter, well, you could calculate the

frequency of these hypers.

Therefore, Lopez and they're doing the difference between the high cutoff and low cutoff.

You will get the stop band frequency.

Another way of doing it is to calculate directly the middle frequency of the starbound, which is given

by the following equation.

So the frequency at which these basic 20 notch filter design offers maximum attenuation is called the

notch frequency and is given by this equation.

Now that we know why this notch frequencies, we can proceed to the next disadvantage that this weather

has.

So being a passive RC network.

The third disadvantage of these basic 20 notch filter design is that the maximum value of the output

below the notch frequency is generally less than the maximum value of the output above the notch frequency

due in part to the two series resistances in the Lopez, with the section having greater losses than

the reactor size of the two series capacitors in the high power section.

There's actually another disadvantage, but it's related to the quality factor, a.k.a. Q factor of

the filter, which is something that we didn't learn yet.

But don't worry because you will find out what cool factor is when we talk about active.