Hello, hello, hello.

In the previous course, we saw that we could create a stock filter using an RSA configuration, which

is good for applications where an all star band is required.

But we have also seen that we could create the best filter using a 20 configuration, which is basically

a law passed before high pass filter in parallel.

But wait a little bit.

Isn't this law passed in high pass filter weird?

A little bit.

It's not the one we were used to before.

Right.

The hyperspeed that actually has an additional capacity series and the Lopez filter has an additional

registry series.

Hmm.

That's weird.

So it is cause we will try to demystify this and see the difference in the quantities of Bassi Filter

or.

All right, so passive implementations of linear filters are based on the combinations of resistors,

inductors and capacitors, these types are collectively known as passive filters because they do not

depend upon an external power supply and or they do not contain active components such as transistors.

We already know that the simplest passive filters, which are CNRS filters, include only one reactive

element except as C filters, which are characterized by inductors and capacitors.

These Ursy peers, whether it's Lopez or high pass filter fores inside of the first apology, which

is called US Air Filter, so an air filter consists of two reactive elements, one in series and one

in parallel.

Then to use our C and when to use RL depends on the situation.

For example, if the signal is of very low power, then our C is often the best.

It's the cheapest and smallest in many cases.

However, if it's a Lopez filter for the output of a transmitter or the output of a large power supply,

you want to have very low losses in the past.

And so you always use an air filter.

So even though our C is cheap and easy, it weighs this power due to the resistor, which is in series

with a signal and also introduces thermal noise.

All right.

So we saw that El Topology has dual reactive elements, right?

Three element filters can have a P or a apology.

And the either geometries Lopez Hypers band pairs or band characteristics is possible.

The truth is in majority P filters are used for Lopez filter applications, while T filters are used

for high test filter applications.

And that's why we'll focus more on the Lopez filter and high pass the filter.

So let's start with P filter as a Lopez filter.

The design of a Lopez filter using the P configuration is pretty straightforward, the p filter circuit

consists of two capacitors connected in parallel, followed by an inductor in series forming a P shape.

As you can see, it consists of two capacitors which are connected to Ground V for an in-between series

inductor.

This is a Lopez filter.

It produces high impedance at high frequencies, which means that high frequency signals will have a

much harder time to pass through the filter.

Seeing as the filter provides high impedance for them, low frequency signals will pass through the

filter without problem because the filter will have a very low impedance, which means, therefore,

low frequency signals.

The filter will be like a short circuit.

Anyway, looking at this filter, you might have wondered, well, all right, but how to calculate

the cut off frequency of this filter?

In the majority of cases, the two competitors have equal capacities, and if so, the frequency of

this filter can be calculated using the following equation.

It's almost the same equation that the simple or C filter uses, except that it's for P and not your

P.

All right, but then what's the advantage of using such a filter?

Well, the first advantage is that, as you can see, the capacitors and the doctors of a P network,

Lopez Filter are arranged such that a capacitor is connected between the input and ground.

Another capacitor is connected between the output and ground, and then another is connected between

input and output.

The reason the circuit acts this way is that as the frequency of a signal increases capacity, reactance

decreases and inductive reactants increases, meaning that higher frequency signals are more likely

to be shunted to ground.

The second advantage is that the output voltage across that filter is quite high, making it suitable

for the most power related applications where high voltage DC filters are required.

Remember, and I hope you know this by now, there's no DC voltage drop across any indicator, basically

voltage across any doctor when DC is applied these theoretically zero.

But due to the resistance offered by the coil material, well, there will be some voltage drop and

ideally a doctor would have zero resistance.

But anyway, it's really, really small.

So the DC voltage drop is minimal.

Knowing this the second, the third or the third advantage of using a P filter is that this filter is

very efficient in filtering out and wanted AC arepas coming from a bridge rectifier.

The capacitance provides low impedance in AC, but the high resistance in DC, which is due to the effect

of capacitance and reactance right due to these low impedance across AC, the first capacitor of the

P filter bypasses the AC Reaper coming from the breach rectifier.

Then the bypassed AC repo goes into the doctor.

The inductor resist the changes of current flow and blocks the AC arepas, which is further filtered

by the second capacitor.

So these multiple stages of filtering have to produce a very low ripple, smooth output across the filter,

again, be filters are an excellent DC filter to suppress the AC replays and this behavior.

Beefeaters are extensively used in electronic designs like AC to DC converter frequency converter,

etc..

Let's take a real example of using a filter.

This is a power supply circuit that converts high voltage to a constant 12 volt DC.

The inductor that is between the two competitors is not just simply simple, as you can see, is actually

a one to one transformer.

One of the advantage of using a one to one transformer in this case instead of a simple inductor, is

that we can isolate mainlines from the high switching frequency across the driver circuit.

So this part of the circuit can create plenty of noise due to the switching behaviour.

And by using a transformer, we impede do high frequency noise to disturb our mainlines.

As I explained before, Beefeater is excellent in removing the AC repairs that are generated after the

bridge rectifier providing smooth DC for the repair free operation of the overall driver circuit, resulting

in a low output repeller from the final output of the power supply.

Other advantage of using a filter is that in a controlled radio frequency environment where higher frequency

transmission is required, for example, in the gigahertz band, high frequency filters are easy and

flexible to make in the PCB using just PCB traces.

So the filters made using the passive components have much more immunity in terms of seargent and harsh

industrial environments than the silicon based filters which uses active components.

All right, now let's take a look at the apology in the previous course, I ask you to comment where

this tea actually comes from.

Well, as you can see, the filter is shaped as a tea letter O as I mentioned, you usually find high

filters in the topology.

So we will focus on this.

A high pass filter using tea configuration has one inductor to ground and either side there is a series

in line capacitor similar to the topology.

Further elements can be cascaded for improved Roloff performance.

Usually the two capacitors have the same capitalises and the equation to calculate the minus.

The three decimal point is the following.

Note again that it's four P instead of Tupi, as we were used to with the simple C circuit.

So a T network with series capacitors and the parallel Shantee inductor has the property of it being

a high pass filter.

In this type of hypers filter, additional capacitor is added to improve the filtering action.

The reason the circuit acts this way is that as a frequency of the signal increases, capacity of reactors

decreases and inductive reactors increases, meaning that lower frequency signals are more likely to

be shouted to ground.