Hello, guys, what's going on?

We have reached a point where we covered all the fields or types, these being Lopez, Hypers, Bumpass

and how filter, right.

You might say to yourself that.

All right, well, I know enough about filters.

There's more to come over here than if you thought so.

I had to disappoint you because there are three or five other random filtered out there that I want

to share with you.

So in this course, let's start with the easiest one, which looks ideal.

When I see this filter for the first time, I was like, what the heck is this bustier news filter?

For a time, I realized that it's actually very easy to understand.

So let's try to see what this filter is and how it works.

Oh.

All right, so just to calm some people down, this freighter is not just a single filter, it consists

of three different filters.

This is called the crossover filter, and a crossover filter is a series of three filters.

So the filter on top is a Lopez filter.

The middle one select midrange frequencies and the bottom one is a high pass filter in a T configuration.

This filter gain so much popularity in audio related applications that the combination of these three

filters got the name of crossover filter.

These three resistors at the end of each filter is actually a speaker and I don't know how familiar

you are with speakers.

They usually have impedance four, eight and 16 ohm.

Note that I said impedance rather than resistance, and that's because loud speakers are reactive elements

by nature.

If you open up another speaker, you will see that inside of it.

There's what is known as voice coil and the wire in a voice coil is usually made of copper with copper

wire across sections can be circular, rectangular or hexagonal, giving varying amounts of wire Wallum

coverage in the magnetic webspace.

Anyway, my point was that the coil inside of a speaker is a reactive element.

So it's an inductor rather than a resistor.

Since it's an inductor, the impetus of a speaker changes as the sun goes up and down in a pitch, where

is frequency, for example, to 41 hertz?

The impetus of a speaker might be homes, but two kilohertz, which is the upper range of a violin.

The impedance might be just three ohms.

So the impedance specifications seen on the speaker is just a rough average.

For the sake of the application, we use resistors instead of inductors because in the simulator, the

only thing you can change in the inductor is its enactors, which is not enough to simulate a real voice

speaker.

So it's better to just stick before assister.

All right.

So think of a crossover network as an audio traffic cop directing hye's to your tweeter's midrange,

to your woofers and nose to your sub.

You might hear the term crossover point.

So the crossover point is nothing else but the point where the cut off frequency of two filters intersect.

Plus you can see in this image.

In real world, they put signals should be a song, right?

But since we don't have that option to feed the feel through song, we use a severe generator that will

output a Siwei starting from 100 hertz.

And if you go all the way up to 20 kilohertz, my question to you is, why does the input frequency

tops at 20 kilohertz?

Well, that's because humans can hear all the frequencies between 31 hertz as to articulate the sad

truth is that as we age, we are less likely to hear high frequency sounds which are close to 20 kilohertz.

I Hellenized sorry that I want to share it with you and I apologize for wandering away from the main

topic.

So there was an old English guy who was living in an apartment and every single night teenagers gather

together partying and having fun on the other side of the street.

This old guy was obviously stressed out that he sleep time was disturbed by the noise generated by the

teenagers.

So what he did to get rid of this problem is that he put a huge loudspeaker on his window that was facing

this group of young people, and he started to pay a high wave of a constant frequency of 17 kilohertz.

The guy went to sleep and nothing happened.

But the teenagers were so disturbed by this high pitched sound that they actually had to move away from

their actual location.

So to conclude, as we age, our hearing sensibility decreases and we will be less likely to hear high

frequency sounds.

All right, so where were we noticed that these filters doesn't have a register at all, each filter

is made out of only reactive elements.

Why do you think is that so?

Well, that's because, as I mentioned, the circuit is mostly used in all the applications where the

quality of the sound really matters.

What I mean by that, first of all, using only reactive elements, we actually increase the steepness

of the runoff, which is always beneficial, especially in this case where we have to divide low, mid

and high frequencies.

Second, LC is more efficient than our C because our C has a resistor which raises energy at any frequency.

There are two types of crossovers.

There is passive and active crossover.

The silicon that you see here is passive because it doesn't need power to filter the signal as desired.

However, active crossovers require power and ground connections, but it gives you much more flexibility

and fine tuning control over your music to understand how an active crossover filter works.

Let's take a real world scenario.

The source of music is coming from a radio that receives the signal over the air using an antenna write

an active crossover gets wired between the receiver and amplifier and cuts out the unwanted pregnancies

before the amplifier wastes energy, boosting them so the amplifier can focus on only the frequencies

you want to hear.

Active crossovers usually have volume controls on every channel or pair of channels so you can keep

all the voices of the different drivers in balance.

Some active crossovers include other sound processing features, like equalization for further tweaking

of the sound to your personal satisfaction.

So again, most active crossovers allow adjustment of the crossover point, as well as independent control

of the output level of each frequency band.

The only potential disadvantage of an active crossover is that well, since it requires to avoid ground

on internal connections, it presents more of a challenge to install setup than a passive crossover.

But with little time and care, these really would be a problem.

And the rewards and advantages of an active crossover make it clear why you will find one in virtually

every competition ever car audio system.

So we see seen as an active crossover resource before an amplifier compared to the active crossover.

Where do you think a passive crossover is situated?

Well, the passive crossover is actually placed between the amplifier and the speaker, so there will

be only one amplifier that amplifies the whole spectrum of the music that the passive crossover filter

will direct each frequency to the associated speaker.

All right.

So both types, whether it's active or passive, are commonly found in home, car stereo and other professional

audio systems.

Let's end this course of actually testing this passive crossover filter, so these three graphs shows

the output of each filter, right?

The first one is for the Lopez filter, the middle one is for the filter, and the third one is for

the high pass filter.

All right, let's start the simulator and see what happens.

As long as the input frequency is low, the Lopez filter will get the signal to pass through without

attenuation while the other two filters are blocking the signal very well.

Now, notice that the bad feel filter start conducting more and more as the frequency increases and

the Lopez filter starts attenuating the signal, the bypass filter is still blocking the signal.

All right, the frequency is still increasing to kilohertz, two point four.

Notice that the input frequency is starting to get closer and closer to the cutoff frequency of the

high pass filter, so the band pass filter starts blocking the signal while the high pass filter starts

conducting more and more.