You should bear in mind that there is no ideal filter, each filter is good in some areas, but poor

in others, and there's a reason why some smart guys came up with different filters that has different

benefits and drawbacks.

So it's time for a good old fashioned battle royale between the greats of the 25th world in his.

We will take a closer look at the most popular era figure that apologies that are Butterballs TV show

Bessel and Elliptic.

Each of those times had its own strengths, depending on the application.

We will take a deeper look at each one and then do a final comparison between them to see if you can

crown a winner in this battle for the ages.

So let's get started.

Oh.

Before we start, I want to talk about some basic concepts so that we avoid any confusion in a purely

resistive circuit, the current and voltage both change in the same way and at the same time.

Right.

This relationship is through whether the applied voltage is direct or alternating.

The main difference in Azeez here, which is that the voltage continues to change in a way that depends

on the shape of the input wave.

When a sine wave voltage is applied to a purely resistive circuit, it produces a sine wave current.

Both waveforms reach their peak values at the same time and pass through zero or the same time.

Wattage and current in a purely resistive circuit are therefore said to be in phase with each other.

In a purely inductive circuit, the voltage and current waveforms are not in phase.

Inductors opposes change in current due to the back EMF effect.

This causes the current to reach its peak value some time after the voltage.

So in an industrial circuit, current lags voltage so in OK with containing both inductors and resistance,

which is usually the case as the doctor will have some internal resistance.

Right.

The current will lack the voltage by an amount between practically zero degree and almost minus 90 degree.

Since voltage and current no longer rise and fall together, a phase shift is occurring in the circuit.

On the other hand, competitors had the property of delaying changes in wattage, that is the high voltage

3GS steady state only after a time dictated by the time constant in AC circuits, voltage and current

are changing continuously.

And in a purely competitive aesthetic with the peak value of the voltage waveform occurs a quarter of

a cycle after the peak value of the current.

Therefore, a phase shift is occurring in the capacitor.

The amount of shift between voltage and current is plus 90 degree for a purely competitive circuit,

with the current leading the voltage, the opposite phase shift to an inductive circuit.

Now that we know what it is, it's kind of obvious that passive filters using weathercaster or inductor

will introduce our phase shift, for example, as the filter contains a capacitor.

The phase angle of the output signal lags behind that of the input and the minus three decibel cutoff

frequency is minus 45 degrees out of phase.

This is due to the time taken to charge the plates of the capacitor as the input voltage changes resulting

in the output voltage lagging behind that of the input signal.

The higher the imperfections you apply to the filter, the more the capacitor lags and the circuit becomes

more and more out of phase.

On the other hand, in an RC high pass filter, the fees angle of the output signal leads that of the

input and is equal to plus 45 degree or the cutoff frequency.

All right.

So both Lopez and Hypers introduces some face shift, and this face shift is different at a different

frequencies.

I hope I could make this clear, if not leave a comment below, the next thing you should be aware of

is the frequency domain repoll.

So repos are the fluctuations in the band or starbound of a filters frequency magnitude response curve.

Reppas, in a suitable response are called us out of band repoll.

And these ripples in the past band band can be caused by several reasons like poor design of the filter,

poor PCB design or the transfer function of the filter is built in a way that there is a compromise

between a very steep Roloff and High has been repoll.

Every single filter in the world has a what is called a transfer function.

So the transfer function looks like this and is the ratio of its output to its input, which depends

upon the frequency.

In other words, a transfer function is a mathematical function which theoretically models the devices

output for each possible input.

This equation will exactly calculate the output voltage of the filter when the input voltage and the

frequency of the signal is known.

So based on these transfer functions, some smart people try to create better and better transfer functions

to reach the ultimate goal of an ideal filter, but each time they created a transfer function, they

realized that they always had to do some compromises.

The transfer function that they created were very good in one thing, but less good is something else.

So let's start with the first one, which is called Bottled Water Filter.

The Butterball filter is commonly referred to as the maximum flight option because the possible response

offers the steepest Roloff without inducing a pass by the ripple.

In addition to the flap passed by the response, the selectivity of the Butterball feature is better

than many other Froedtert apologies, such as the Basil or a Galson.

The flip side of this improves.

The activity is greater delay and poorer phase linearity.

So bardawil filters offer solid performance.

Considering the number of components needed to implement the filter.

The Bessel filter has the response of the group.

Even though it doesn't have a sharp cutoff, it offers superior shift compared to the other filters

in the group.

The better filter requires the most stage's meaning that it requires the most components.

However, it offers excellent characteristics like, for example, low sensitivity to component tolerance

and superior step response.

The best filter is ideal for applications that require a minimal facelift, and due to the gentle frequency

response of the best filter, it can only be used in applications where there is enough space between

the president and spot that the third filter that we are going to look at is going to be your filter.

And it's named after the Russian mathematician called us PADF Nuti Chebbi Chambishi.

The issue of theater is known for its response, this response can be designed to be present in the

passement or in the sub, and the amplitude of the ripple is directly proportional to steepness of the

role of.

So the issue of theater is also called equal filter.

It gives a sharper cut off than or filter in the passement.

And both Butterball Chambishi filters exhibit large phase shifts near the cut off frequency.

The typical filter is used where a very sharp Roloff is required.

However, this is achieved at the expense of, again, ripple in the lower frequency president.

But we are going to talk about this caldas elliptic filter, well, Darity filter is characterized by

a that exist in both the president as well as the sub, that the repeal of the elliptic filter is similar

to the typical filter.

However, the selectivity is greatly improved.

The downside for this improved selectivity is a more complex filter network that requires more components.

The elliptic filter also has the sharpest roll off of all the filters in this group.

This sharp Roloff comes with the unintended consequence of ripples in both the president and Starbound.

Despite the past Sobell report, the filter is best used in applications where selectivity is a key

driver in the filter design, the rating filters amplitude of the past bad it's not bad can be adjusted

separately to fit the application.

And the Rehnert.

It depends on the application, that may be an unsatisfying answer, but it really does depend on many

different elements that must be treated during the filter design process, such as frequency response,

selectivity, number of stages, Fazeli and the ability to put the policy properly.


