All right.

So why do we care about power?

Well, you see, power is the measurement of energy transfer over time.

And unfortunately, energy costs money.

Batteries aren't free, and neither is the stuff coming out of your electrical outlet.

So power measures how fast the pennies are draining out of your wallet.

Also, energy is, well, energy.

It comes in many potential harmful forms like heat, radiation, sound nuclear, etcetera.

And more power means more energy.

So it's important to have an idea of what kind of power you are working with when playing with electronics.

Fortunately, in playing with Arduinos, lighting up LEDs and spinning small motors, losing track of

how much power you are using only means smoking a resistor or melting an ice.

Now you see there are many types of power, like, for example, physical, social, super power, love.

But in this tutorial, we will be focusing on electric power.

So what is electric power?

Well, in general physics terms, power is defined as the rate at which energy is transferred or transformed.

So first, what is energy and how is it transferred?

Well, it's hard to state simply, but energy is basically the ability of something to move something

else.

There are many forms of energy, like, for example, mechanical, electrical, chemical, electromagnetic

thermal and many others.

Energy can never be created or destroyed, only transferred to another form.

A lot of what we are doing in electronics is converting different forms of energy to and from electric

energy.

So, for example, lighting LEDs turns electric energy into electromagnetic energy.

Spinning motors turns electric energy into mechanical energy.

Buzzing buzzers makes sound energy powering a circuit of a nine volt alkaline battery.

Turn chemical energy into electrical energy.

So you see, all of these are forms of energy transfers.

So electric energy in particular begins as electric potential energy, what we lovingly refer to as

voltage.

When electrons flow through that potential energy, it turns into electric energy.

And in most useful circuits, that electric energy transforms into some other form of energy.

Electric power is measured by combining both how much electric energy is transferred and how fast that

transfer happens.

Now each component in a circuit either consumes or produces electric energy.

A consumer transforms electric energy into another form.

Like, for example, when an LED lights up.

Electric energy is transformed into electromagnetic form.

In this case, the lightbulb consumes power.

Electric power is produced when energy is transferred to electric from some other form.

For example, a battery supplying power to a circuit is an example of a power producer.


