So we already know that electric power is the rate at which energy is transferred.

It's measured in terms of joules per second, where joules per second is nothing else but a watt.

Given the few basic electricity terms we know, how could we calculate power in a circuit?

Well, we've got a very standard measurement involving potential energy volts which are defined in terms

of joules per unit of charge current.

Another of our favorite electricity terms measures charge flow over time in terms of the emperor, which

is coulombs per second.

Put the two together and what do we get?

Well, power.

So to calculate power in any particular component in a circuit, multiply the voltage drop across it

by the current running through it.

For example, here is a simple circuit which has a nine volt battery connected across a ten ohm resistor.

How do we calculate the power across the resistor?

Well, first we have to find the current running through it, which is easy enough using Ohm's Law.

Ohm's Law says that current is equal to voltage divided by resistance.

So nine volts divided by ten ohm is equal to 0.9 amps.

All right.

So 900 milliamps is running through the resistor and nine volts across it.

What kind of power is being applied to the resistor then?

Nine volts multiplied by 0.9 amps is equal to 8.1W.

A resistor transforms electric energy into heat.

So the circuit transforms 8.1 joules of electric energy to heat every second.

Now when it comes to calculating power in a purely resistive circuit, knowing two of three values voltage,

current and or resistance is all you really need.

By plugging Ohm's Law into our traditional power equation, we can create two new equations.

The first purely in terms of voltage and resistance.

So in our previous example, nine volts at the power of two divided by ten is 8.1W.

And we never have to calculate the current running through the resistor.

The second power equation can be formed solely in terms of current and resistance.