All right.

Now, you might be wondering, why do we care about the power dropped on a resistor or any other component

for that matter?

Remember that power is a transfer of energy from one type to another.

And when that electrical energy running from the power source hits the resistor, the energy transforms

into heat.

Possibly more heat than the resistor can handle.

Which leads us to power ratings.

Now all electronic components transfer energy from one type to another.

Some energy transfers are desired, like, for example, LEDs emitting light motors, spinning batteries

charging.

Other energy transfers are undesirable, but also unavoidable.

These unwanted energy transfers are power losses, which usually show up in the form of heat.

Too much power loss, too much heat on a component can become very undesirable.

You see, even when energy transfers are the main goal of a component, there will still be losses to

other forms of energy.

LEDs and motors, for example, will still produce heat as a byproduct of their other energy transfers.

Most components have a rating for maximum power.

They can dissipate, and it's important to keep them operating under that value.

This will help you avoid what we lovingly refer to as letting the magic smoke out.

Now, resistors are some of the more notorious culprits of power loss.

When you drop some voltage across the resistor, you are also going to induce current flow across it.

More voltage means more current means more power.

Remember back to our first power calculation example where we found that if nine volts were dropped

across a ten ohm resistor, that resistor would dissipate 8.1W.

You see, 8.1 is a lot of watts for most resistors.

Most resistors are rated for anywhere from 0.125W to 0.5W.

If you drop eight watts across a standard 0.5W resistor.

Ready?

A fire extinguisher.

There are resistors built to handle large power drops.

These are specifically called out as power resistors.

If you ever find yourself picking out resistor value, keep its power rating in mind as well.

And unless your goal is to heat something up, try to minimize power loss in a resistor.

So resistor power ratings can come into play when you are trying to decide on a value for an LED current

limiting resistor.

Say, for example, you want to light up a ten millimeter super bright red led at maximum brightness

using a nine volt battery.

The LED has a maximum forward current of 80 milliamps and a forward voltage of about 2.2V.

So to deliver 80 milliamps to the LED, you would need an 85 ohm resistor to do so.

6.8V dropped on the resistor and 80 milliamps running through.

It means around 0.5W of power lost on it and a half watt resistor isn't going to like that very much.

It probably won't melt, but it will get hot.

So play it safe and move up to a one watt resistor.

All right, guys.

As a final thought, resistors certainly aren't the only components where maximum power ratings must

be considered.

Any component with a resistive property to it is going to produce thermal power losses.

Working with components that are commonly subjected to high power voltage regulators, diodes, amplifiers

and motor drivers, for example, means paying extra special attention to power loss and thermal stress.