Carlos Watson invented the first album in 1967, and he originally conceived them to do mathematical

operations in analog computers, does the operation part of their name?

We know that they are powerful amplifiers, but they can also be used for mathematical operation in

is worse.

Let's find out how to add two or more voltages or singers together using an ANOP.

And the name of the circuit is called us something BlueFire or just up and other.

So as we know, an iPad app is an amplifier, but an op ed can also perform some something operation,

we can design specifically to combine a number of inputs in us and to produce a single output as a weighted

sum of input signals.

So basically, assuming amplifier is an open secret that can combine numbers of input signal to a single

output, that is the way it is.

Some of the applied inputs, the something amplifier is a one variation of inverting amplifier inverting

amplifiers.

We know there's only one voltage signal applied to the inverting input as shown here, and the simple

converting amplifier can easily be modified to something amplifier if we connect several inputs terminals

in parallel to the existing import terminals as shown here.

As we can see here, and number of import terminals are connected in parallel here in the circuit,

the non-voting terminal of the open space ground, it has potential at the terminal zero.

Right.

And as the up is considered ideal up, the potential of the emerging terminal is also zero.

So the aggregate potential at node one is also zero.

What's the name of this node?

We are on the ground, right?

So the electrical potential at the node one is zero from the liquid, it is also clear that the current

eye is the sum of currents of import terminals.

So this current here is equal to the sum of all the input currents.

This is just basic work of law which says that the current entering a node is equal to the currents,

leaving a node now using Onslow.

How can we determine i1, for example, where current equals to voltage divided by resistance?

Right.

Since the right terminal of our one is a ground, so it's zero.

Would the current flowing in this path is simply equal to we one minus zero or divided by our one?

So if we know this, let's replace all the current in this equation with this formula and let's get

rid of that zero and our equation becomes more clear.

But why am I showing you this?

Well, you will see it in a minute.

So this current eye, which is the total current coming from all the inputs, will not flow into the

open, right?

It just can't because the OP amp has a very high input impedance.

Instead, the current will flow through the feedback resistor RF.

If we write the current equation down, the current AI is equal to zero minus the voltage on the right

side of RF, which is the output voltage all divided by RF.

So this is equal to minus without divided by RF.

But why is it zero minus we out?

Because voltage is always an electrical potential between two points.

We usually measure the voltages in a circuit reference to ground.

Right?

Well, if you get your multimeter and put the RET probe on the right side of the RF and that air probe

on the left side, which is the ground, you will get a negative voltage as long as the input voltage

is positive because this is an inverting amplifier.

But I'm sure you know this by now.

So by using this equation and this one, we can calculate the output voltage.

It might look scary at the first glance, but trust me, it isn't.

So this equation indicates that the output voltage is the weighted sum of numbers of input voltages.

Why don't we do a simple example?

Let's try to calculate the output voltage when we have three input voltages.

So we have three input DC voltages, each one being of two words.

And all the resistors are Tokino.

So this is an eather, right?

And by using this equation, the output voltages, two words plus three words plus two words, which

is six words.

But since this is an inverting amplifier, after all the output voltages minus six void's easy.

That's it.

All right, so in the previous example, the inputs were all D.C. Now we have a five words AC input

with a frequency of 200 hertz and a two words square with input signal before frequency of 20 hertz.

So based on rule number two, the apparent attempts to keep it inverting input are the same voltage

as the non-working input, which is tied to ground.

So both input signals are driving one km resistors whose other end is at the ground.

The current across the third resistor, which is the feedback resistor, is the sum of the two currents.

So the voltage drop must be equal to the sum of the two voltage drops, which is the negative, some

of the input voltages.

As a result, five words plus two words equal to seven words, so the output voltage is overall a five

words AC signal.