As well as constructing inserting something amplifiers, we can also use the wording input of the operation

amplifier to produce non inverting something amplifier.

We have seen that in inverting some in the amplifier produces the negative some of its input voltages.

Right.

Then it follows that the non-working something amplifier configuration, we produce the positive some

of its input wattages.

So as its name implies, the only something amplifier is based around the configuration of a non inverting

operation amplifier circuit in that the input which can be either AC DC is applied to the wrong inverting,

which is the plus, not while the required negative feedback and gain is achieved by feeding back some

portion of the output signal to the inverting, which is the minus terminal as shown here.

So what's the advantage of an inverted configuration compared to the inverting some in the amplifier

configuration you might test?

But besides the most obvious fact that the OP's output voltage is in phase if if it's input and the

output voltage is the weighted sum of all its inputs, which themselves are determined by the resistance

ratios, the biggest advantage of the non inverting something amplifier is that because there is no

virtual ground condition across the input terminals, it's input impedance is much higher than that

of the standard inverting amplifier configuration.

Also, the input some part of the circuit is unaffected if the up close look voltage gain is changed.

However, there is more maths involved in selecting the weighted gains for each individual input a disarming

junction, especially if there are more than two inputs, each with a different weighted factor.

Nevertheless, if all the inputs have the same resistive values, then the maths involved will be a

lot less.

If the closed loop gain of the nanny working operation amplifier is made equal to the number of assumingly

inputs, then the output voltage will be exactly equal to the sum of all the input wattages.

That is, for a two inputs non-reporting something amplifier.

The UPM gain is equal to two for a three inputs summing amplifier.

The upper amps gain is three and so on.

This is because the currents which flow in each input resistor is a function of the voltage at all its

inputs.

So if the input resistances are made equal or one equal or two, then the circulating currents cancel

out as they cannot flow into the high impedance inverting input of the up and the output voltage becomes

the sum of its inputs.

So for two inputs inverting something amplifier, the currents flowing into the input terminals can

be defined as the following.

So the current two are one plus the current through or two is equal to zero because the input impedance

of the up is very high.

Both currents can be rewritten as a function of water and resistance.

Right?

This is just basic onslaught.

If we make that you input resistance is equal in value, then or one is equal to or two.

And as a result, the voltage on that, on inverting input is equal to the B1 plus V2 or divided by

two, we already know that the standard equation for the voltage gain of an inverting something amplifier

circuit is given as follows.

So the game is equal to one.

Plus are a divided by Arby.

And from this equation we can write that the output voltage is equal to one.

Plus are a divide by Arby or multiplied by B one plus two divided by two.

So the only working amplifiers close look voltage gain is given us one plus r a divided by Arbie.

If we make this close look wordage gain equal to two by making or equal to Arbie than the voltage,

I mean the output voltage becomes equal to the sum of all the input voltages as shown here.

As a result for a three input Nunawading swimming amplifier configuration, setting the closed loop

voltage gain to three will make the output voltage equal to the sum of the three input wattages.

So we want a plus V2 and plus V three equal to we out.

Likewise for a four input somewhere, the closed loop voltage gain would be four and five, four or

five input somewhere.

And so on note also that if the amplifier of the circuit is connected as a unit follower, we are equal

to zero and or be equal to infinity.

Then with no voltage gain, the output voltage will be exactly equal, the average value of all the

input voltages.

So that is if we have two inputs that the output voltage will be equal to one plus two or divided by

two.