An op ed with no feedback, he's ordered the defense to have the fire right after five years worth of

difference between the two evils.

However, its game cannot be controlled and it is generally too high to be of any practical use.

So far, our application of negative feedback to Ops has resulted in the practical loss of one of the

inputs, the resulting amplifier only good for amplifying a single voltage signal input.

With a little ingenuity, however, we can construct an open secret, maintaining both worked cheap

shots.

Yet if a control game set by external resistors.

If all the resistor values are equal, this amplifier will have a differential voltage gain of one.

The analysis of the circuit is essentially the same as that of an inverting amplifier, except that

the nonemergency input, which is the plus of the UPB, is at a voltage equal to a fraction of RETO.

Rather than being connected directly to ground, US would stand to reason with two functions as the

non-voting input.

And we want functions as the inverting input of the final amplifier circuit and therefore the output

voltage is equal to minus one.

If we wanted to provide the financial gain of anything other than one, we would have to adjust the

resistances in both upper and lower voltage dividers, necessitating multiple resistor changes and balancing

between the two dividers for symmetrical operation.

So again, if all the resistors have the same value, so R-1 equal to R2 equal to our three and equal

to our four, then the circuits will become a unit to gain differential amplifier and the voltage gain

of the amplifier will be exactly one or unity.

Then the output expression would simply be without equal to V to minus B one.

Also note that if input B one is higher, that input B to the output voltage, some will be negative.

And if Rita is higher than one, the output, what?

It will be positive.

Now what if you want the gain of this amplifier to be different than unity?

In this case, we have to tweak the resistors value.

But how?

Usually when designing a circuit like this, we try to keep our one equal to our two and our three equal

to our four in this case.

So if this condition is met, then the output voltage can be calculated using this formula.

So the output voltage is equal to our three divided by R1 or multiplied by V to minus V one.

All right, here we are.

Let's see all the resisters have the same value, so the overall game is equal to what the output voltage

is simply equal to the voltage on the non inverting been minus the voltage on the inverting been.

So Edwards minus firewall's is equal to three words and indeed the output wattages.

Three What the second input signal is driving two resistors which act as a voltage divider and the plus

input of the up is connected between them, where the voltage is equal to half the second input signal.

Right.

So this one KMB with the other one KMB forms of what is divider.

And since both resistances are equal, the output voltage of the voltage divider, which is also the

input voltage of the inverting as well, will be equal to half the input voltage.

We know that the OPAP attempts to keep its minus input are the same voltage as the plus input.

The two resistors here on top acts as well as a voltage divider, making the minus input halfway between

the first input signal and the APEP output.

If the voltage on the non-convertible input is equal to half the second input voltage, which in turn

is equal to the voltage on the inverting input, which is equal to half the first input voltage plus

the output voltage, then the output is simply equal to the second input voltage, minus the first input

voltage or the difference between the two inputs.

Now, what if instead of a gain of one, you want a gain of two?

Well, in that case, our three divided by one has to be equal to two.

So let's make this six km and the other one, two, three km.

And surprisingly, the output, it was supposed to be twice as big.

It's even smaller.

It's all it avoids.

But why is that?

Because we didn't obey the collision.

So this equation is only valid if our one is equal to our two and our three is equal to our four.

So let's make this resistor equal to three km.

And the other one to see Skydome.

Now, notice that the output wattage is indeed six wards, so eight votes, minus five also is three

words times and again, which is now two.

So they'll put wattages six votes.

What is this good use for in my desk?

I mean, just obstructing one DC voltage from another one is not very interesting, isn't it?

Well, in the last course we will talk about it in more detail.

But now let me show you another circuit which might trigger your imagination.

So this year with Output's, the difference in what is between the two signals, right, in this case,

the first input is a 60 year signal and the second input is a 60 year signal with 120 hertz square with

added in.

Well, here in the simulator, the two signals are added simply by connecting the two sources in series,

which is convenient but unfortunately unrealistic.

So what happens now is that the output voltage is only comprised of the 120 hertz squarish signal.

But why is that?

Because the signals that are common between the two inputs, voltages, common, meaning that they are

identical in frequency and voltages, cancel each other out.

So these 60 her signal is identical to the other one.

And basically the output voltage equation would be this voltage, these 60 hertz plus this square with

minus the signal on the inverting per unit.

So overall, the signals that are common on both inputs cancel each other out, leaving only the square

wave to pass through.

Hmm, that's interesting.

Could be use the circuit to cancel noise out.

We will see that in the next course.

But now there's a little problem here.

It's not a problem, but it's a limitation of the circuit.

So why limitation of the circuit is that its input impedance are rather low compared to that of the

some other option configurations, most notably the non inverting single input amplifier that we can

see.

Each input voltage source has to drive current through a resistance which constitutes far less impedance

than the bare input of an OP alone.

And the solution to this problem, unfortunately, is quite simple.

Or we need to do is for each input, for the signal through a voltage follower like this.

Now the V1 and V2 input lines are connected straight to the inputs of the two voltage follower up amps

giving very high impedance.

The input sources don't have to drive any resistances anymore.

And thanks to the very high input impedance of the EMP, the input current can be very close to zero

amps.

So now, instead of the input source is driving the resistance's, the upper hand, the driving of current

through the resistors instead of letting the input voltage source do it.

The increased complexity to our circuit is minimal for a substantial benefit.

I got this song, remember that?