All right, welcome back.

In is course, let's see why differential amplifiers are so important in electronics, especially when

it comes to data transmission.

What data are we talking about?

Well, let's see how the USB product works.

So you Hasbi is widely used, as you know, it is used to connect devices together and to transfer data

from one point or another and back.

So the USB is a cereal box it uses for wires, do for power, firewalls and ground and for differential

data signals labeled as the plus and the minus.

Now we won't go into detail specifications about the syllabus that would go beyond the scope of this

lecture.

So the data from one point to another is transmitted through the plus and minus Penha.

But what is the plus and minus why one is labeled as plus and the other one as minus.

That's because you USB uses a method called differential signaling.

What is differential signaling?

That differential signaling is a method for actually transmitting information using two complementary

signals.

The technique sends the same electrical signal as a differential pair of signals, each in its own conductor.

The pair of conductors can be wires typically twisted together or traces on a circuit board.

So the job of these two wires is to transfer information data from point A to point B..

This means that you Hasbi is half duplex, meaning that at any given time, one end of the cable is

the sender and the other one is the receiver.

So how does these data wires work?

First, let's understand why USV uses two wires instead of one.

Well, after all, if both wires carry the same information simultaneously, why couldn't they just

send the data through one data wire and pair one wire?

So this USV here hypothetically uses just a single data wire, as well as a ground wire and a power

wire.

The data wire carries a varying voltage like, for example, varying I mean, compared to the ground

and the voltage is interpreted as the value of the signal.

So the problem with a single and is signaling I mean, one problem with this single and the signaling

is electromagnetic interference.

The interference adds noise to the voltage on the data wire.

There are many forms of electromagnetic interference, EMI, that can affect circuits and prevent them

from working in the way that was intended.

This EMI or radio frequency interference, as it is sometimes called, can arise in a number of ways,

although in an ideal world you should not be present.

So EMI, which comes from electromagnetic interference, can arise in many ways and from a number of

sources.

The different types of EMI can be categorized in a number of ways.

Well, one way of categorizing the type of EMI is, by the way, it was created.

So the first one is man made EMI.

This type of EMI generally arises from other electronic circuits, although some EMI can arise from

switching or large corones, et cetera, and the other one is naturally occurring.

EMI, where this type of EMI can arise from many sources like cosmic noise as well as lightning and

other atmospheric types of noise or contribute.

So in short, EMI is nothing else, just an unwanted noise, you know, flowing around and Ted Koppel

into our transmission line.

So this unwanted noise will be added on top of our data, which is obviously something that we don't

want because it will corrupt our data.

So if we just use one wire to carry information and if noise gets into our data line, then we can do

nothing about it.

Probably we could use some some filters at the end of the transmission line.

But how do we know beforehand the frequency of the noise?

We don't know.

Right.

So some clever engineers came up with a solution called differential signaling.

Here's how it works.

You got two choices that both carry the same signal, one of which is considered the positive signal

and the other trace is considered the negative signal.

Each wire has its own separate signal, except one wire is set up to always show the exact opposite

signal of its companion wire.

The signals are balanced in that they have equal amplitude.

Now, why is it so useful?

Because we can connect this differential pair into an open up so the receiver has a differential amplifier

that receives the signal as the difference in voltage it sees on the two wires.

So what happens now?

The differential amplifier has a gain of one.

OK, so all the resistors are equal.

The output voltage is the difference between the two inputs.

Right?

So the difference between high and low logic levels is therefore we s minus minus wires, which is equal

to tubists.

So the output is twice the input voltage grid.

So our data, which in our case was just a logic one has been transmitted successfully and it has been

even amplified by two.

So far, so good.

The interesting thing here is that, as I have mentioned in the beginning, these two cables are twisted

pairs, but twisted pair cabling is a type of wiring in which two conductors of a single circuit are

twisted together for the purpose of improving electromagnetic compatibility when magnetic interference

is induced into this twisted pair.

The noise induced on both wires will be equal in phase and amplitude.

So this is very important for you to understand where the noise coming from somewhere, I don't know

from where.

Probably from a switching power supply, which is close to the two data lines.

So this noise will be induced into the twisted pair we have seen in the previous course.

What happens with signals that are equal in frequency phase and amplitude.

Right.

They are subtracted away.

So again, the output signal is there.

The difference between the plus and the minus.

The inside here is that interference will usually affect both wires, the plus and minus in the same

way.

And so by subtracting the two noisy wires, we can cancel out noise, leaving only the desired information

to pass through.