Hello, when we come back.

Until now, we have seen that albums can be used to perform arithmetic operations like addition and

subtraction.

Besides, these operations and operation amplifier can be configured to perform the mathematical operations

of integration and differentiation in this story.

We will learn and analyze the working of operation amplifier integrator.

So let's get started.

In most cases, we know the feedback that is used is mainly resistive in nature before direct resistive

performing at least part of the network.

However, for the integrator, this is not the case.

The component providing the feedback between the output and input of the up is a capacitor as the name

of the op amp integrator implies.

It performs a function that is an electronic equivalent to the mathematical integration function.

In fact, electronic integration circuits can be used in analog computers in terms of their operation.

The circuit produces an output that is proportional to the integral of its input voltage with respect

to time.

This means that the output voltage at any time is determined by the start output voltage, the length

of time the input voltage has been present and the value of the input voltage.

The basic idea behind an integrated circuit is shown here, although there are few changes for the UPM

greater circuit.

This concept is what is behind its operation.

So from this diagram, it can be seen that while the input remains at zero, so does the output.

However, when astep input wattages apply to the input, the output rises.

When the step input returns to zero, the output remains at the voltage it last attained.

So integrating astep input voltage like this, we get an output as it is shown here.

In other words, the magnitude of the output signal is determined by the length of time a voltage is

present at its input.

It makes sense, right?

The more the input voltage stays high, the greater the output voltage.

Now the construction of a simple integrated circuit using up amper requires two passive components and

one active component.

The two components are resistors and capacitors, the resistor and the capacitor form.

First order Lopez filter across the active component of an integrated circuit is exactly opposite of

open, a differentiator circuit that we will see later.

So how does the circuit work?

Open game, as we know, is somewhere close to infinite, therefore, the inverting input of the amplifier

is a virtual ground.

When a voltage is applied across the R-1, the current start to flow through the resistor as the capacitor

has very low resistors.

The capacitor is connected in the feedback position and the resistance of the capacitor is insignificant.

So this situation, if the amplifier gain ratio is calculated, the result will be less than the unity.

But why?

We know that the gain ratio of an inverting amplifier is given us minus R.F. divided by our ear.

In our case, the resistance of the capacitor, which is Korda's reactors, which is dependent on frequency,

is X C.

We have talked about capacitors reactors before, so I assume we know what it is.

So as I said, the amplifiers gain is less than unity.

And that's because the gain ratio, which in this case is minus the capacitors reactance divided by

three, is too small.

Practically, the capacitor has very low resistance between the plates and whatever the value or one

holds, the output result of XY divided by one will be very low.

The capacitor begins to charge up by the input voltage and in the same ratio the capacitor impedance

also starts to increase.

The charging rate is determined by the RC time constant of R one and C one.

The operator urf now hampered and the negative feedback will produce an output voltage across the UPB

to maintain the virtual earth condition across the input.

So again, when there is an important signal applied, we are talking about a DC here for a better understanding.

So we have a step input voltage.

The capacitor starts to charge up, right.

And the charging time or the charging rate is determined by the RC time constant.

The higher the value of R1, the slower C one will charge up.

It makes sense right us the feedback Cabaser C begins to charge up due to the influence of the input

voltage, its impedance x C slowly increase in proportion to its rate of charge.

So the capacitor charges up at the rate determined by the RC Time constant of the series Our C Network.

The negative feedback that forces the OP amp to produce an output voltage that maintains a virtual earth.

The op amps inverting input and sees the capacitor is connected between the op amps inverting input,

which is that which will grant potentia right.

And the output which is now negative.

The potential voltage, which is we see developed across the capacitor, slowly increases, causing

the charging current to decrease as the impedance of the capacitor increases.

And this results in the ratio of Xixi divided by R in increasing producing linearly increasing ramp

output voltage that continues to increase until the capacitor is fully charged.

When the capacitor has fully charged up at this point, the capacitor acts as an open circuit, blocking

any more flow of DC current, the ratio of feedback capacitor to input resistor is now infinite, resulting

in infinite gain and the result of this high gain, which is similar to the options.

Open loop gain, if you remember, is that the output of the amplifier goes into saturation as shown

here.

If you don't know what separation means in this context, the separation occurs when the output voltage

of the amplifier swings heavily to one voltage supply, rail or the other with little or no control

in between.

So we say that an upper arm goes into saturation when its output bumps into the voltage supply rail,

either the positive or the negative one.

Now the rate at which the output voltage increases, which is the rate of change, is determined by

the value of the resistor and the capacitor, which is the RC time constant by changing.

These are the time constant value, either by changing the value of the capacitor C or the resistor,

or the time in which it takes the output.

What is to reach saturation can also be changed.

If we look at this diagram, we can see that by altering the value of either the capacitor or resistor,

we can alter the time the output voltage reaches saturation.

So let's see this behavior in our simulator.