All right, so let's see, how can this work with integrate our input signal?

Well, what we are doing here is that we combine an 800 square signal with a 40 hertz, a square wave

signal.

So the input looks like this.

I know it looks weird, but this example is very good to show that the output is indeed the integrate

of the input signal.

What is integration in the first place?

Well, this goes into calculus and I don't want to bore you out with that.

Integration is used in many different places and has different purposes.

In our case, the circuit basically outputs the average value of our input signal over a given time.

So this Al Pacino that we see here, which looks like a triangle array.

Right.

Is built by averaging this weird looking input signal from Daewon, I say to T2.

So this is with calculate the integral of the input, meaning that the output voltage changes at a rate

proportional to the input voltage.

So the upper attempts to keep its minus input are the same voltage as the plus input.

And this requires it to drain an amount of current proportional to the input voltage.

The input current is equal to how much the input current is equal to the input voltage divided by this

one km.

So this year, I mean, this input current goes through the capacitor whose voltage is proportional

to the integral of the current flowing through it.

There is a nice equation actually that you can use to calculate the output voltage over a given time.

And it looks like this.

So the output voltage of an AMP integrator can be calculated using this equation.

I know it's not the most beautiful equation, but if you have some basic integration scales, you can

calculate the exact output or I mean output voltage over a given time.

Now, what happens if instead of a square wave, we apply a sine wave?

Well, this is where you might say, aha, this is really performance is the reason I'm saying this,

if you had some doubts until now.

So what is the integral of Senex?

It's minus cause X, right?

For an AC integrator, a sinusoidal input waveform will produce another sine wave as its output, which

will be 90 degrees out of phase with the input, so producing a cosine wave.

So using this Elkwood, we converted Asar.

We have intercourse sine wave, which is 90 degrees out of phase.

However, this is not frequently used and because of a certain limitation where we fit the integrator

with an AC signal, the upper integrator performs less like an interpreter and begins to behave more

like an active Lopez filter that we haven't called yet, passing low frequency signals while attenuating

the high frequencies.

And so the core frequency of the circuit is one divided by duppy times.

These capacitors times, this resistance.

But I know it's a lot to take in right now, and this is indeed not a regular surgery that you will

use day by day, one of the most popular use of ANOP, the greater ease to produce the triangular wave

out of a square rape triangle or waves are extensively used in some applications of triangle or wave

include sampling circuits to restore firing circuits, frequency generator circuits, tone generators,

milkweeds, etc..

Another use of perpetrator is in analog to digital converters.

Sometimes even sensors use an iterator to reproduce useful outputs.

And last but not least, interpreters can be using analog computers where integration is needed to be

done using the analog circuit.