Hello and welcome back.

The last type of arithmetic operation that an operator can perform you just a few passive components

around is differentiation not to be confused with differential.

What is differentiation?

Well, differentiation is in mathematics is the process of finding the derivative or the rate of change

of a function.

So basically, differentiation is the action of computing a derivative.

It does exactly the opposite of the APEP integrator.

While the operator integrates the input signal, the opposite differentiator computes the derivative

of the input signal.

Integration can be seen as differentiation in reverse.

That is, we thought before giving function ethics and ask which functions capital F of X would have

F of X us there derivative.

This is just basic calculus stuff.

And you know, if you have missed this class in high school or university, I advise you to learn about

integration and derivatives from external sources since it would be very useful for you in long term.

Before we get into the hard stuff, which is not that hard either, I want to show you this Erwitt.

We have a DC power supply whose voltage can be set and the capacitor.

We know that capacitors have capacitors is right.

But what is capacitors exactly?

Capacitors can be defined as the measure of capacitors, opposition to changes in voltage.

So the greater the capacitors, the more the opposition capacitors oppose voltage change by creating

current in the circuit.

That is, they either charge or discharge in response to a change in the applied voltage.

So the more Capstone's a capacitor has, the greater its charge or discharge current will be for any

given rate of voltage change across it.

The equation for this is quite simple.

So the current through the capacitor is equal to the derivative of the voltage across the capacitor.

Where I want to get that with this is to explain what divi over means.

So the debate over diffraction is a calculous expression representing the rate of voltage change over

time.

If this this is apply in the circuit were steadily increased from a voltage of fifteen volts to avoid

each of 16 volts over time span of one hour, let's say the current through the capacitor would most

likely be very small because of the very low rate of voltage change.

So the divi over DETI is equal in this case to one world over three thousand six hundred seconds.

However, if we steadily increased the supply from 15 to 16 words again.

But now over a shorter time span of, let's say one second, the rate of all this change would be much

higher and thus the charging current would be much higher, 3600 times higher to be exact.

Same amount of changing voltage, but vastly different rate of change, resulting in vastly different

amounts of current in the circuit.

To put some definite numbers in this formula, if the voltage across forty seven microfossils capacitor

was changing at a linear rate of three watts per second, the current through the capacitor would be

forty seven macropods times three volts per second, which is equal to one hundred forty one micro amps.

All right.

Now that we hopefully understand what the over is, let's move further.

So why is an upward differentiator useful?

Because the circuit outputs a voltage which is directly proportional to the input.

Voltage is rate of change with respect or time.

In other words, the faster or larger the change to the input, what the signal, the greater the input

current, the greater will be the output.

What is change response?

We can build an up circuit which measures change voltage by measuring current through a capacitor and

outputs a voltage proportional to the current.

It can be seen that the opposite circuit for integrator is very similar to that of the differentiator.

The difference is that the positions of the capacitor and resistors are changed before expanding how

this could work, I want to show you how the circuit changes the share of different input signals.

So as a differentiator circuit that has an output that is proportional to the input change, some of

the standard waveforms, such as sine wave squares and triangular waves, give very different waveforms.

The output of the differentiated circuit.

For these waveforms, it can be seen that the greater the rate of change of the waveform, the input,

the higher the.

Output voltage at that point, in fact, for the summary of input, only very short spikes should be

seen.

The spikes will be limited by the slope of the edges of the input waveform and also the maximum output

of the circuit.

And it's a slow rate and bandwidth.

The spikes should also decay swiftly.

So again, this may be limited by the circuit and on diagram.

The decay is not shown to be infinitely fast, representing better what a real life waveform may look

like.

So again, the output voltage is directly proportional to the input voltages rate of change with respect

to time.

This means when we input a squarish signal out here, the square of input will have a sudden change

in voltage from low to high.

Right.

And the sudden change will generate an output spike.

But then after the sudden change, the input stays constant.

And since there is no change in the input voltage, the output voltage starts to fall down to zero.

The triangular way the input transforms to a square is in line with the rising and falling levels of

the input waveform.

The sine wave is converted to a cosine waveform giving ninety degree of phase shift of the signal.

This can be useful in some circumstances.

All right, so how does this work with work, you might ask?

I don't want to just throw the output voltage equation and tell you to remember that you are not here

to memorize things.

We are here to understand the core functionality of circuits.

So the input signal of the differentiator is applied to the capacitor.

Right.

And we know that capacitor blocks any DC content, so there is no current flow to the amplifier.

Some point which is noted as X resulting in zero output voltage, the capacitor only allows AISI type

input voltage changes to pass through and whose frequency is dependent on the rate of change of the

input signal.

This year resembles very much on inverting amplifier, right?

The only difference is that here we have a capacitor and another resistor.

Anyhow, the closed loop gain of the circuit is minus RF divided by the reactors of the capacitor.

So again, a reactants of the capacitor can be associated with the resistance because basically the

higher the reactants for capacitor, the greater impedes the flow of current.

We can't calculate the reactors of the capacitor using this equation.

And from this we can see that at low frequencies, the reactors of the capacitor is high, resulting

in a low gain, hence low output voltage from the EMP at higher frequencies.

The reactors of the capacitor is much lower, resulting in a higher gain and higher output voltage from

the differentiator amplifier.

However, at high frequencies, an open differentiator circuit becomes unstable and will start to oscillate,

this is due mainly to the first order effect, which determines the frequency response of the open circuit,

causing a second order response, which at higher frequencies gives an output voltage far higher than

what would be expected.

And to avoid this, the higher frequency gain of the circuit needs to be reduced by adding an additional

small value capacitor across the feedback resistor RF.

But anyway, let's not get into that now.

Let's use mathematics to explain what's going on here.

Since the node voltage of the operation amplifier of its inverting input terminal is zero.

The current AI flowing through the capacitor will be equal to the current flowing through the feedback

resistance.

Right?

We know that because there's no current flow into the APEP rule number one.

And so the current flowing through the feedback resistor is basically equal to the output voltage divided

by RF, of course, with minus sign at the beginning.

Why is we out divided by RF equal to the current?

Because this point is that the ground, it's the virtual ground.

So this is just basic on slow.

Now, the charge on the Cabaser is equal to the capacitance time's voltage across the capacitor, and

as a result, the rate of change of this charge is dequeue over DETI, which is equal to C times D,

the input voltage divided by DETI.

But we know that the dequeue over that is nothing else but the current through the capacitor.

So we can rewrite this equation as the input voltage equals to this and it's equal to the current flowing

through the feedback register.

These current through the resistor is equal to minus without divided by RF, right.

So by plugging in this into the equation, we can find out the output voltage very easily.

Therefore the output voltage is a constant minus R.F. times C times the derivative of the input voltage.

With respect to time, the minus sign here indicates a 180 degree phase shift because the input signal

is connected to the inverting input terminal of the operational amplifier.

Finally, let's cross-check with our simulator if the upper differentiator really does what we have

learned.

Don't worry, we will keep it very short.

So by applying a triangular input waveform, we obtain, as you can see, a square wave.

In the beginning of the course.

I said that differentiation is the opposite of integration.

Well, if you remember back, we if the OP had been the greater than the input waveform was a query,

we got a triangular wave and now we have a triangular wavelength input and we got back the same basic

math doesn't like.