We are going to take a look at the operation amplifier, or better known as the old Papp's operation

amplifiers are one of the most useful circuit blogs for analog electronic circuit design.

They are easy to use and can provide some near perfect and unacceptable.

So it's a really important building block.

Absolutely essential that you understand how they work.

So let's get started.

So what is an open or an operation amplifier where the name Operation An Amplifier comes from the fact

that when they first developed, they were developed to do mathematical operations, hence the name

operation amplifier.

And back then we didn't have digital computers.

So we use up amps for analog mathematical operations like additions, subtractions, integration, differentiation,

stuff like that, even that hard calculus stuff, or perhaps could actually do these operations in hardware.

Although nowadays all these calculations can be made by the software running on the CPU and we don't

have any other computers anymore, we still use up arms for the use mathematical operations.

You can turn an iPad into an integrator, for example.

We could turn it into a summer, which is just an order and things like that.

So they are really useful circuit building blocks.

But the main thing we are going to look at is operation an amplifier as an actual amplifier, because

that's what they are most commonly used for and probably what you will mostly use them for as well.

So an up amp is essentially just an amplifier.

Yes, it can be used for doing mathematical operations, but essentially what it comes down to is this

differential amplifier.

And what it means is that it's got two inputs over here, which we'll talk about and an output and it's

got some gain in there because amplifiers have a gain.

Right.

And what it does is it takes the difference between these two input signals, amplifies it by its internal

gain or what's called an open looking and gives you an output voltage.

But up amps really can be used as different amplifiers on their own, even though that's what they are.

Rather confusing, but an important aspect that you should understand.

So why can't these be used just as a differential amplifier input signal here outputs in and out with

some gaine there?

Well, they are not designed to be used as differentiate amplifiers, as strange as they may seem,

even though they are essentially differential amplifiers.

If we look inside of an of them, you will understand why they are basically differentiated by fires.

Another amp has a differential amplifier input stage.

So the two inputs of a of the op amp is this one and this one.

And he's got an ATM follower output stage.

I have already covered the flash amplifiers in the course intended for beginners, so please check that

out if you have trouble understanding how the circuit works.

So this circuit that we see here is a super simplified circuit of an up amp practical op amp circuits

are much more complicated than the circuit.

And I will show you how it looks in a minute.

So transistors, Q1 and Q2 forms a differential amplifier where input voltages is applied to the base

terminals of Q1 and Q2 transistor.

Q3 operates as an ATM follower and provides low output impedance.

So this is how a practical shop is built up in real life, and no, I have absolutely no idea Sirikit

on my own, I actually found this already done in the simulator, Korda's seven four one internals.

So zero for one is the name of the op amp.

And if you are curious, Checketts datasheet out.

Now, probably I shouldn't have even showed the circuit I don't want to scare you out at the beginning

of the course, in reality, you will be surprised how easy it is to use up arms.

So, hey, let's forget about the differential amplifiers.

I shouldn't even mention it, but it is important to understand the operation of how an op ed actually

works.

Now, the reason they don't work differential amplifiers is because the gain, the natural gain, the

internal natural gain of the APEP is enormous.

And that's the first thing you need to know about OP amps is it's almost, well, not quite infinite,

but you can't think of it as infinitely large.

It's like millions of times and where the data sheet won't even tell you.

So if you just tried to use an app like this with no external circuitry and just fed, you know, like

one millivolts on one off the input here, the open loop gain is so large that the output voltage is

going to be so huge.

That is just not a practical device at all.

All right, here we have an op up and notice that the power pins of an op ed are not shown here.

If you want to use any options, you need to power them with positive and negative voltage.

So if you want to use them in the simulator is naturally assume that it is powered and visually it's

much more appealing to look at it without the power supply pins.

So as we said, in order to use an op amp, it must receive positive and the negative voltage on its

power pins.

If we double click on it, we can see this OP amp is actually powered with positive 15 volts and negative

15 volts.

And notice here that the gain is super large, it's 100 k this gain, remember, is better known as

open gain or personal gain refers to the absence of a feedback loop from the output to the input.

Don't worry, we will talk about feedback soon and we will see why they are so useful.

Now, you might probably wonder what's the relationship between the output and the input signals where

the missing piece of the puzzle is this equation here that states that the output voltage is equal to

the open loop game times the difference between the two inputs.

So which inputs?

Which you might ask.

So the amplifiers, differential inputs consist of an only vertical input, which is noted as V plus

and an inverting input, not V minus, we will talk about why they are called as such soon.

But now let's just focus on the circuit.

So ideally, the OP amp amplifies only the difference in voltage between the two, which is called the

differential input voltage.

The output voltage is given by this equation and if we replace the known values in the equation, so

the gain is 100k times for minus three.

This gives us an output of 100 kilowatts.

Now, obviously the OP amp is not the magical component that could output more voltage than it is supplied

with the output.

Voltage is limited by the positive and negative power supplies.

And here the upper limit that the output can swing to is maximum 15 watts.

And that's how much of the amplifiers power vif.

So hypothetically, if we were to change the upper limit to, let's say 200 kilowatts, then we can

see that the output is indeed 100 kilowatts.

So this equation is a valid one.

Now what happens when the inverting pin, which is noted as the minus pin, is higher than the non inverting

pin, which is Nautilus plus?

Well, let's increase the voltage on the inverting pin until it's equal to the voltage on the non inverting

pin.

So when both inputs are equal, the output ideally is zero because this difference is equal to zero,

the moment this voltage is slightly higher than the other one, the output voltage bumps into the lower

limit of the open, which is the negative power voltage that the OP is power V..

So now the difference is minus zero point one and amplifying this by it's all part of gain.

We get an output voltage of minus 10 kilowatts.

So if we, again, hypothetically feed this up and we've minus 200 kilowatts, I'll never do that in

your life, OK?

Notice that the output is indeed minus 10 kilowatts.

So this huge gain is not something that I have said to be this big in real life, this could be even

higher.

We don't know how much it is, and even though that it won't provide this information.

So you just safe to assume that it's infinite.

All right.

So let's review what we have learned so far.

First up, has to empathies, the positive spin is called the non inverting the input and the negative

pin is called inverting input.

The OP amp is powered with a positive and negative voltage.

So most of amps require both positive and negative power supply to operate.

Though we will see in the future that there are situations when the negative spin is connected to ground.

Don't worry about this for the moment.

And lastly, it has an output pin.

Another thing we've learned is that an operational amplifier is a very high gain DC differential amplifier.

This high gain is called US Open Loop Gain and it is often about 10 of the power of five or even 10

of the power of six.

Also, we have seen the future video.

This high, ideally infinite gain is extremely important, not because we frequently need to increase

the amplitude of a signal by five or six order magnitude, but because an amplifier that combines high

gain with a differential input stage provides a convenient means of exploiting the beneficial properties

associated with negative feedback, and we soon learn about negative feedback as well.

And lastly, we learned that since the operation amplifier is essentially a defense amplifier, even

if it doesn't work exactly like one, it amplifies the difference between the two input voltages where

the gain is called an open loop gain.

Why do you think it's called this open again?

Is there something like a closed loop?

Really?

Let's find out.

Norman.

Oh, my God, if I die on my legs and when they lay me down to.