Hello, when we come back, so as we have seen in the previous course, the fundamental function of

an op ed is to greatly amplify the difference between the two inputs and outputs.

The result.

So if input three plus is greater than at V minus the OP amp will amplify and output a positive signal

if we minus is greater.

The OP every output an amplified negative signal.

Right now we can see that the OP amp works as a competitor.

Well, not the best competitor in the world indeed.

Rather a crude one.

And you can't use an op ed as a competitor in a pinch, but they aren't quite as good as a proper competitor

that you can actually buy, which are designed to be competitors.

But hey, you can use an all purpose competitor.

I mean, if the output voltage is high, that the voltage on the plus is higher than the voltage on

the minus.

And if the output is low, we know that the voltage on the inverting pin is higher than the voltage

on the nonemergency been because the upper gain is so high, even the small differences in the inputs

rapidly drive the output voltage to its maximum or minimum value.

So that's what happens if you connect an op amp with no feedback at all.

And what that's called, what we have here actually is an open loop configuration because there is no

loop, so there is no loop.

The loop is open and we will close the loop in a minute.

But we an open configuration like this, an op ed is just a comparator.

So now let's have a look at what we're up Ms.

Calm, really useful, and that's a proper amplifier.

Now to do that, as I said, we need to go from the Opala configuration with no feedback to add in what's

called negative feedback.

And once you do that, options become incredibly useful and powerful devices.

Now, there are two rules with arms.

That's all you have to remember.

It's fantastic.

This is how easy ops are.

If you know these two rules, if you remember these two rules, you can analyze practically any UPM

circuit.

You can get into the real nitty gritty details of the performance of it, perhaps, but you can look

at the schematic and you can understand how it works so that the rules are very simple.

Rule number one, no current flows in or out of the inputs.

So there is nothing flowing in or out of these two input beans ever.

That's it.

Nothing nothing flows in or out regardless how you connect the circuit, whether it was the operator

compared to the configuration we saw earlier or whether or not it's a closed loop configuration and

inverting or not inverting amplifiers we are going to look at.

So nothing flows in or out.

Rule about you now, this rule only applies when you have a closed loop like this, it doesn't apply

at all to the open loop that we just saw with the computer.

That's why we did the computer first, even though it might have been a little bit confusing to start

that way.

Most people thought up an explanation with these EU rules, but I want to show you compared her first

to highlight that rule number two does not apply or only applies to closed loop configurations with

negative feedback.

Now, rule number two is the OP does whatever it can internally, right, so internally it does whatever

it can to keep these dual voltages the same.

Now, the OPM can't actually change its input voltage, so it has no way to actually drive a voltage

out and keep them the same.

But it can do it with feedback.

And that's why this rule only applies to closed loop configurations.

So the OP amp only has control over its output, but if you have a feedback, it will change this output

voltage to make sure that this input equals this input here.

And that's a very powerful rule of options.

And if you see a closed loop configuration like this, you can be pretty sure that rule number two is

going to apply.

So using these two rules, let's look at the simplest UPM configuration possible and it's not is it

actually has no external components.

So what it has is the output tied back to the inverting input like this and you feed your signal or

your voltage into the non-convertible positive input like this.

And the circuit is called an up buffer.

So using our two rules, very easy to analyze this up buffer circuit.

Let's say let's let's just do this, because the other thing is our palms are decoupled amplifiers so

they can amplify DC as well as AC signals, very important property.

So let's do that in case we are feeding one world into our non inverting input here.

What do we got on the output of our EMP where, look, rule number two always applies when you got feedback

in a circuit in the upper tries to keep these two input voltage is identical.

So because of the rule, this inverting input here is going to be equal to this being up here.

The append will ensure that by driving this output to get this input to match this one.

So we got one word here, then we got one word here.

And because it's just connected by a bit of a wire, we are going to get one word out here.

That's why it's called a buffer.

It's not an amplifier because there is no gain.

One within in one without minus two, world in minus two without.

Of course, the input voltage has to be within the limits of the power supply voltage.

All right, here we are, so this is a simple demonstration of negative feedback using OPAP since the

OP's output is fed back into the emerging pin, the mine has been it attempts to keep its output at

the same level as the positive spin or the nonee bean been.

So right now the input is fed veev three point three walls and notice that the inverting pin is exactly

the same voltage as this one.

If you increase the input voltage, the output will increase to by the same amount so that it can keep

the inverting pin at exactly the same voltage as the voltage on the nonee wording.

In rule number two, OPSB tries to keep both its inputs the same voltage.

So what's the use of the circuit?

You might as well rule number one, no current flow in or out of the inputs.

So nothing, no current flows in.

As you can see, the current is equal to zero on both inputs.

So if you got a load over here, I don't know, it could be some sort of sensor or whatever.

It could be a Lopez filter, for example, like you are feeding a person with a modulated signal from

your microcontroller or something like that.

And then you want to buffer that voltage off there because no current flows into the input.

This up does not disturb your sensor or your circuit that you are actually trying to do.

And this is what it's called, this very high input impedance, essentially open liquid.

So it doesn't disturb anything.

You hook up to it.

But the EMP has what's called low impedance output so we can drive in a reasonable amount of current,

you know, like millions, tens of millions, that sort of thing.

Some can go as high as a couple hundred million for your power amps, but it can drive a reasonable

amount of current.

So that's why it's buffering the signal.

A high speed signal and giving you a low impedance output just allows you to drive things before sensitive

input like that.

Pretty easy, very useful configuration.

The op ed buffer.

So I will repeat this again, an upper buffer like this one is used when the silk with which supplies

the input pin cannot provide much current like sensors.

For example, they output a voltage, but they cannot provide enough current.

So the OpEx output will be the same as its input.

But now the opposite can supply significantly more current to the load or to another circuit or whatever

is connected to its output.

So basically you can call this as a Corot amplifier.

Great.

So let's review what we have learned today, because the OpEx gain is so high, even small differences

in the inputs, we rapidly drive the output qualities to its maximum or minimum value.

For this reason, albums are usually connected to a negative feedback connecting the output of the EMP

back to its inverting.

We get what is called us or Pente buffer.

The up EMP will do whatever it takes to keep both its do inputs the same voltage.

So since the output is connected back with a piece of wire, the output voltage will be equal to the

input voltage on the non inverting been.

We have seen that the input currents are zero, which tells us that the input impedance of an up is

very high while the input impedance is enormously high, the output impedance is very low, ideally

zero.

These two traits of an OP be something that you should remember, and because of them, this configuration

is treatable and it's very often used as a buffer circuit.