So let's try to look from a different angle of the purpose of a buffer circuit, what is a buffer?

A buffer is basically a high impedance device that accepts a voltage input and output the same wattage

as output.

The advantage of a buffer is that it has a high input impedance.

But why is a high input impedance advantageous?

Because if you go to Ohm's Law, what it gets allocated to a circuit in accordance to the resistance

or impedance of a device.

So voltage equals to current times resistance.

Right.

And therefore, if a device has a high input impedance, it consumes most of the voltage from a given

source.

If a device has a low impedance, the voltage for, for instance, from a power source may not fall

across.

It sees the impedance is so low.

This is especially true if there is a resistance increase with this load making the voltage be divided

between the load and the other resistance.

Therefore, to make sure the voltage falls across the device we use above our sees above Buffer has

extremely high input impedance.

It consumes practically all of the voltage from a voltage divided circuit and to the output of the buffer.

We simply connect to the output device.

This output device usually, which is usually a low impedance, now gets the full voltage.

And this is why a buffer is so important for devices that have low impedance.

It allows us to get the full voltage from a given source and fully power that low impedance device.

So buffering a circuit is common practice for this reason.

But let's go for two specific examples of circuits.

So we had this circuit, we have a voltage divider that divides the voltage and that voltage is given

to our Lord, so our Lord requires fireballs and we divided the input voltage, which is 10 volts using

a voltage divider, since the resistors are equal in value and the power source is then holds the voltage

at the output where the load is connected to is five.

So let's assume that the Lord needs about five words in order to turn on.

If we connected the load to the output of this voltage divider which produces fireballs, the Lord wouldn't

receive anywhere near five words.

In fact, it would get around to 98 millivolts, which means it wouldn't turn on at all.

But why is this?

Well, this is because in this circuit there are actually two voltage dividers.

The first, as we stated, is between the two 10 killens resistors and the second voltage divider is

now between the bottom 10 km resistor and the 100 onload.

And this forms a second voltage divider.

All right.

So there we have a voltage divide there without lowed connected to it, the output voltage can be calculated

using this equation.

However, when we connect a load to the circuit, this equation does not apply anymore.

The new equation is this one.

And I want to try to derive this equation here.

But if we plug in the values, the output voltage on the load is only 98 milliwatts.

How crazy is that?

This voltage divide, the circuit is not suitable to power load.

The load would only receive firewall's if it has a high bidders.

More precisely, as I have calculated, it needs to be around 200 km to receive five from the voltage

divider.

And obviously this is not a practical circuit to use if you want to power loads.

Now, let's fix the circuit using a muffler, we will now buffer the circuit.

Now, with the buffer added to the silk, with the silk, it will work because the buffer being of extremely

high impedance consumes most of the voltage produced from the voltage divider circuit, which is a five

foot.

It then passes these fireworks to the output which powers on the load, which needs about fireboats.

Right.

So this is how a buffer works to power on devices.