Let's try to see a buffer Sirikit in action, as you mentioned previously, if we connect allowed to

avert this divide a circuit, even though it outputs five, the moment we connect a law to the circuit,

the five words drops to just 98 millivolts.

And we saw in the previous course how to calculate the output voltage when a load is connected to the

output of the voltage divider.

This circuit is obviously not practical at all, and it cannot be used to power and loads thanks to

the buffer zone with which comes in our rescue.

The input impedance of the OP is so high that the output of the voltage divider does not drop at all.

The output voltage is simply equal to the input due to the negative feedback configuration.

And the advantage of the circuit is that the operator can provide current and power again.

The operator draws almost no current from the input.

So as you can see, the current is equal to zero.

How cool is that?

If it draws zero current from the source, it means that the source is not perpetrated by the upper

EMP at all.

So the source could be an AC source as well, or it could be a high impedance sensor that cannot provide

any current due to its nature.

No problem, because the upper buffer will be the one who drives the lower the current and not the input

source.

So it provides a low output impedance to any circuit using the output of the follower, meaning that

the output will not drop on their load.

So the load is a 100 or resistor in this case, but it could have almost any value.

The OP amp provides all the current needed to drive the load without requiring any current from the

input.

Now, there is a little problem here.

What if the album cannot provide enough current to the Lord?

Because usually, as I have already mentioned, a typical UPM can be expected to continuously sing or

source no more than 30 or 40 minutes, though some parts can handle closer to one hundred millions and

others will struggle to give you 10 millions.

What if we need at least 500 million to drive the load?

So let's try to change the value to eight point five ohms and notice that based on Ohm's Law, the current

is around 500 millions.

Of course, in the simulator, the OP is able to provide this current because this is an idea of here.

But in real world, the current will be limited to the maximum current.

It can output check the UPS datasheet and the EMP might get destroyed in the end.

So the Lord, who knows, it might be a martyr or whatever that is driven by a high impedance pvm signal.

So how can we bypass this limitation of the EMP in case it cannot provide the necessary current for

our load?

Well, it's very easy.

You can create a high current version of the voltage follower using a high powered transistor.

The voltage on the collector is the same as the voltage that this option is powered with.

So there is no need for another external power supply for the transistor.

So the EMP will drive the transistor and the current that the load requires will be provided by this

power supply through the high powered transistor.

So if you need the high current I mean, if you need high current, you are better off with a high powered

transistor to be able to handle those high currents.

Now, there is a little problem here.

I don't know if you noticed, but even though the input voltage is five words, the Lord receives only

four point two words.

But why is that?

Well, the output of the EMP is indeed five words.

But in order to turn on this and a transistor, there's a voltage drop of about zero point eight volts

on the base meter of this transistor.

So zero point eight, what is required to turn these transistors on?

But you know this already, right?

So what can we do?

Should we increase the input voltage by zero point eight watts?

Well, yeah, that could be a solution, but a very bad one.

What can we do instead?

We connected this feedback to the ammeter of the transistor and voila, now the Lord receives five words.

So how does this work, you might ask?

Well, rule number two, the APEP always tries to keep both its inputs of the same voltage, remember?

So the EMP will do whatever it can to keep both its inputs are the same voltage.

The voltage on the inverting pin is then, of course, five watts.

But in order to be firewall's, the output has to rise at around five point eight void's because of

the base ammeter voltage drop.

This is not magic.

This is on his rule number two.