Now, the next configuration we are going to look at is what's called the non inverting amplifier,

and this is where we tame our ops beast, that huge, unwieldy gain that changes everywhere with temperature.

And it's horrible anyway.

So it's got these massive unusable gaining in there as a differential amplifier, but as a single and

an amplifier, that's what singlehanded means.

You feed the input here and it's always reference to what we can use this as a single handed amplifier

and we can tame that game by adding negative feedback on it.

And I want to play a negative and positive feedback in the mechanisms and how it works because, well,

that's for a more advanced topic.

But anyway, we feed in a feedback resistor here, just like we did before it was shorted out.

But we put a resistor in there and we put a resistor back down to ground.

So what it's doing now is this input, the inverting input is taking a small portion area where this

feedback resistor will call RF is always bigger than our one here.

So we just got the voltage divided here that feeds back a smaller part of the output.

And that's essentially what negative feedback is.

You are taking a part of the output and you are feeding it back to the input.

And there's a very simple formula you need to remember for this non inverting amplifier configuration.

And I want to try to derive it.

But again, of this amplifier or what's called a V, that's the actual terminology used.

So Avey is just gain.

Gain equals RF, the feedback resistor divided by Auri, which goes down to ground here plus one.

So you've got to add that plus one on there.

So easy if you've got a nine Keylong feedback resistor and one KMB resistor down to ground, our gain

is well nine K on one K, which is nine plus one.

So our gain is equal to ten.

This means that if you feed one volt into the input here, we will get ten volts or the output easy.

And because we've got positive and negative results, which we will get into, we can feed AC or DC

signals into here.

So for example, we can feed minus one watt here and we get negative 10 volts out.

So there you go.

This is the basic configuration of Anani working amplifier and you might see weird configuration.

There might be a capacitor across here or something like that, which we won't get into into this one.

But, you know, the configuration is the same.

If you see your input being fed into the non inverting input and the feedback going back to the inverting

input, you know, that's a non inverting amplifier.

This formula here applies.

And from this formula, you can also see why our buffer amplifier had the gain of one before, because

our feedback resistor is zero with zero homes.

And Auri, which didn't exist, was infinite ohm.

So one ohms or infinity or a very large value is zero plus one.

So our gain is one.

That's why our buffer had a gain of one.

Easy.

The math doesn't lie.

All right, so the circuit is the same, so we got nine KMEL were here, one KMD on the ground.

So the gain is then this means that if we feed one vote or here they are with voltages 10 times bigger,

so it downwards.

So the positive and negative real is set at positive and negative 15 volts.

And as you mentioned, this configuration is perfectly suitable for AC signals as well.

So if we feed one world AC signal over here, so let me change it to AC.

OK, so we have one word AC signal here.

Tannenwald A.M. out here, pretty easy, very powerful amplifier.

My question to you is, why do you think this configuration is called us non inverting amplifier?

Well, the reason it's called Nanae inverting is because let me max scale this out.

So because the output signal is exactly in phase with respect to the input.

So the output is a non inverted in terms of phase amplified version of input.

In a future course where we learn about inverting amplifiers, where the input signal is fed into the

inverting pin and not into the not inverting being like here, we will see that the output will also

be electrified version of the input, but this time the output will be out of phase with respect to

its input by a 180 degree.

So remember, in an on inverting amplifier, the input signal is fed into the nine pin and the output

is in phase with respect to its input.