So now we get on to the second of our two major configurations, we already looked at the first one,

which was the non inverting amplifier, the butler was just a variation of that.

Now we have instead of the inverting amplifier, we have the inverting amplifier.

How can you tell it's an inverting amplifier?

Well, just like before we could tell it was a non inverting one by the signal going into the positive

input here, the non inverting input, hence the name non-convertible amplifier.

Our signal now goes into our inverting pin.

So hence it's called an inverting amplifier.

And don't worry about the amplifiers symbol.

I mean, the positive and the negative symbol is interchangeable, depending on how it's more convenient

for you to to draw the schematic so the upper doesn't change.

It's just about visually to, you know, to make it a bit easier.

And that's what you will commonly find, these kinetics and care packages and all sorts of stuff.

You might find them flipped around upside down, back to front.

It's exactly the same apap.

He's just visually different.

You can draw it any way you want.

Now, our inverting amplifier that this one is we have our feedback resistor, we have our negative

feedback going to, in this case, into the inverting pin instead of our non inverting one.

So now we are feeding our input into through the resistor here.

So it's a different configuration.

Our signal is not going directly into the non inverting pin.

And this brings up our next really important concept with up amps that you really need to understand.

And here's where rule number one really comes into play in trying to analyse this thing.

It's called Virtual Ground.

Stick with me.

So once again, how do we analyze this thing?

Always go back to your turow's.

What's our second rule here?

The OP arm tries to keep the input voltages the same.

In fact, it will if you got this negative feedback configuration and you haven't hit the res yet.

So if the amplifier is working normally within normal bounds of your power supply, really these two

inputs will always be the same.

So we actually connected our non inverting input down to ground here.

It's connected to ground, so it's never going to change.

So what is the inverting input here going to do?

Well, of course, rule number two, it's going to be identical.

It's going to be the same.

So this point is also going to be ground or zero volts.

So this seems like almost like a pointless circuit because look at rule number one, no current flows

in or out.

So there is no current flowing in or out of the pin and it's ground.

So we've got both pins grounded and no current flows in or out.

It's almost is that what's the point of having another EMP?

It's a very confusing concept, but once you grasp it, you go, oh, that's easy and it's quite brilliant.

So the OPAP, remember, does whatever it needs to on the output, drives it, whatever voltage positive

and negative in order to make sure that this inverting pin here is equal to the non working people down

here.

So the upper back and forth is pin.

What it can do is to change the output voltage to make this been zero.

And trust me, we will do a practical measurement on this in a minute.

And this note here will actually be zero volts.

This confuses the heck out of a lot of beginners.

They build up their circuit, they start probing around and they got their input signal here.

You know, it's one kilohertz, one more time, for example.

And they measure this side of the resistor and the signal is, is there.

And then they measure this side of the resistor and it's ground.

The signal vanished.

Where is it gone?

Strange, but true.

So let's follow this through and use our rules and see if you can analyze the circuit once again, the

D.C. case to make it easy.

So we've got one word on the input here positive, one word with respect to ground.

Of course.

Now, we've said before that, trust me, we will measure it later.

But this is going to be ground.

It is going to be zero words there always.

So all we've got is one word across our our eye here, which is one km.

So we are going to have one million flowing through there.

Where does it flow?

Well, it doesn't flow here down to ground.

How can it?

Because no current rule number one, no current flows in or out of the inputs so it can flow through

the ground here.

So it's going through here.

It's going somewhere.

There's one word across that one kilometer Zisser Onslow always must be obeyed.

So current is flowing, trust me, but it can flow into the pin.

We know it's high impedance, so it must be flowing up here like this through the 10 kilometers there.

And it's being sourced from the output.

Remember, these UPB has internal circuitry.

It's cutting out the buffer so it can actually drive currents into and out of the various supplies back

into there.

And that's where it's sinking currents, too.

And that's a sneaky part about this.

Our current has now been forced up this north here and in this case, our feedback resistor RF, which

is a km.

I've made it 10 times higher.

You will see why in a minute.

So it must be flowing through there.

So we must have a what is drop across the resistor.

Right.

Once again, ohms law always must be obeyed.

So if you got that one millions flowing through our ten K there, we are going to have 10 volt drop

across this resistor with positive here and negative here.

So these voltages are with respect to ground here.

Now, this is where it gets a little bit tricky, this positive wattage here is we are going to get

the plus 10 wards across that register there.

But because the spin is positive.

But but but we are fourth, we know that the spin is OK because of the rule number two.

This means that if this is ground and it is positive, then we've got minus 10 votes coming out of here.

Bingo.

There is our inverting amplifier, one 113 minus 10 votes out.

So our gain, our formula is V, which is gain equals RF sorry, minus R.F. divided by our eye.

There's no plus one with the inverting amplifier.

The plus one only applies to the other non inverting configuration.

So this point here is what's called a neutral ground, because typically this configuration, it is

actually grounded because we grounded this spin.

It doesn't have to be we can't feed other voltages into the spin and offset and do all sorts of other

stuff.

But it's still called even if you do feed other voltage in here, it's still called neutral ground because

it's virtual, it's not real.

It's not hard to hide.

If it was hard to get to out, if we actually tried to spin around, this thing wouldn't work because

all of our current would flow through here through this resistor down to ground.

So where this point here becomes a virtual ground by the nature of the APEP action, it will magically

work.

I hope that makes sense because once you get it, it's really easy.

So functionality wise is pretty much exactly like the non inverting amplifier, except it inverts and

that's it.

And the key formula is slightly different.

But apart from that, pretty much everything works exactly the same.

But the magic virtual grant is at play in this configuration.

So compared to the non inverting amplifier, the circuit inverts, meaning that the output is 180 degrees

out of phase with respect to the input.

This means that when the input voltage increases, the output voltage is decreasing.

And if we look at the scope, you can see that the output voltage is increasing up to six words and

down to minus six volts.

So the gain is minus three.

Three or one.

K is three.

But since this is an inverted amplifier is negative three, what I wanted to show you is that if we

actually ground the negative power supply, so we connect the negative power to zero.

We can notice that the output is not going down to negative anymore.

How could it in order for the output voltage to go negative?

You need to feed the Opeth with negative voltage.

So remember, the output voltage always has to be within the boundaries of the two power supplies.

Otherwise it would be kept just like we see in the computer.

The output voltage was limited by the power supply wattages.

Now, let's change this AC voltage input to these high voltage so that it's easier to analyze the circuit.

What do you have to understand, is that an option, any attempts can move source current, meaning

that current flows out of the open into the load or whatever, and it can also sink current, meaning

that current is flowing into the open up from the load.

If we place the pointer on the upper on the up, you can see that the output current is negative to

millions.

All right, so when connected in a negative feedback configuration, the up attempts to keep its two

inputs, the same wattage one is on the ground.

So for the other one to be a ground, we can see that it's at ground level.

It's a couple of micro volts.

There is basically zero voids.

So in order for this point to be on the ground, there must be a voltage drop across this one km resistor,

which has to be equal to the input voltage.

The three km resistor has the same current across it.

So notice that the current across this one km resistor is two millions right to vote, divided by one

kilometer, two millions and declarant across the three km is two millions as well.

So rule number one, no current flows in or out of the speeds since the current across the three km

resistor has the same current across it.

The voltage drop must be three times as large by onslaught, making the output equal to minus three

times the input voltage.