Hello and welcome back.

In the previous course, we have seen that the output voltage of an emerging bin is 180 degrees out

of phase compared to the input voltage.

So when the input voltage rises, the output voltage decreases because it's an inverting amplifier.

Now, of course, one of the disadvantage of the inverting amplifier compared to the wording one we

saw before, is that, as you can see, there is input current coming from the input source.

So you don't want to use this when you have a high impedance source, which means that the source itself

cannot provide current, so the source cannot provide Corot or it's very, very little.

So this is where you want a nonemergency amplifier or at least a buffer.

Some people we actually put a buffer or the input here and then drive the adverting amplifier.

But usually in that sort of case, you would probably use a non inverting amplifier.

Now we have to go deeper into this and talk about the power supply and Petraeus and all this sort of

stuff and single supply up amps.

I will try to keep it as brief as possible.

But you saw in this configuration the APEP only has two power pins, OK?

It's usually called replaster V minus.

Now we Meiners, you can actually connect that to ground.

There's nothing regardless of the data, it tell you.

So there is nothing inherent in options that make them really a single supply of arms.

So you can take an option that is V plus and minus and connect this pin down to ground like that.

There is nothing to stop you as long as you meet the minimum specification and don't exceed the maximum,

etc..

So what happens if we did that in this case?

Our input is also grounded here.

Well, now it becomes a problem.

You get into the practical limitations of the OP amp.

These rules that we have seen aren't strictly true applied.

These rules are totally valid.

Different APEP would be an ideal one.

Unfortunately, the real world operates have practical limitations.

Still, these rules are a fantastic way and even professionals use these rules to analyze the circuits.

So, for example, rule number one is through four idea options.

But the ones that you can buy on the market, a little tiny, teeny weeny current can flow into and

out of these piece depending on the type of the op you are actually got.

And that's a real political limitation of these things.

The other one is that the inputs cannot necessarily go right to the Raiders beat, whether positive

negative reference round so you can get what's called a real train up or rail trail input appends.

It is.

Kades If you had to rail to really put up, then yeah, you might be able to get away with this and

have the non-convertible was tied down to ground like this.

But hang on, what's the point of that?

If you've only got ground, this is an inverting amplifier.

So it inverts your signal.

So if you feed Wirewood in the upper will try to give minus 10 volt out because the game is minus a

minus 10 in this case.

So but how does it do that where the OP's negative supply pin is grounded?

It doesn't work.

It's got no room to do that.

So the OP always has to be powered in the configuration that you expect your input signals to be referenced.

Do so.

If we were to use the inverting op ed configuration is before before single rail like this, if we wanted

to amplify AC signals, well, the output signal won't go below ground Y because the negative supply

is grounded.

So the output voltage can only swing from zero volts up to the voltage on the positive supply pin.

So what can we do in cases like this?

How heavy amplify our input AC signal?

Well, what we need to do is this zero point needs to go right down the bottom here like this.

So we need to offset so that zero what we need to offset our input and output reference by a certain

amount of voltage, how much we typically have the supply really to maximize your headroom.

How do we do that?

Well, I hinted to that before.

So in order to offset the output voltage, we can't feed in here.

So if this is V plus, we would go V plus divided by two.

So we could we would feed that voltage half really there.

And usually you would do that by putting a voltage divider that is powered by the same positive power

supply.

So the value of both resistors will be the same as we would feed the inverting input with half of the

power supply.

Do you remember that this point is called a neutral ground?

Well, this is still called a virtual ground, even though it's not going to be so the.

What is here is going to be equal to the voltage here due to our second open rule.

So if our power supply is too active voice, for example, this point here would be half that.

So it's going to be their voice.

So if this point is a third world, we are going to have an offset voltage here as well at this point.

And this will shift our output waveform up.

And we will see that in the simulator in a minute.

So, again, just to make this particular thing clear, so typically an up circuit will be operated

from differential supplies, like, for example, plus minus 12.

This is quite acceptable in many applications, but in many circuit designs, only one supply may be

available.

Under the circumstances, it is relatively easy to implement what is termed a singlehanded version of

the inverting amplifier optimizer.

With these uses only one supply and ground.

The single voltage supply version of an open selected for the inverting amplifier circuit uses more

components when compared to the dual real version.

But the design of the amplifier element remains the same.

Effectively, a half point is created for the non-working input, and in this way, the operational

amplifier sees the same conditions.

It would as if it were operating from a dual supply grade.

Now let's see how it works.

All right, we have an inverted amplifier, the input signal is a two words easy signal, and the output

is an amplified version of the signal since the gain is three.

The output is six words.

Now, what happens if we need to amplify these AC signal, but we don't have negative power supply,

so the negative power pin is grounded.

Not all these.

The output signal is now clipped, but zero words because it cannot go below this level in cases like

this.

We have to offset the output voltage at the half supply rail so that we have the maximum headroom for

our signal to swing.

Now, the app is only powered with a positive 15 volt, so in order to get the maximum headroom, the

output, we need to supply seven point five words into our non inverting input.

And by this, the virtual ground becomes seven point five volts and the output becomes seven point five

words as well.

So there is no voltage drop across these three km resistor.

The current is zero.

So both ends are at seven point five points.

Now the output has an offset of seven point five volts, as you can see here.

So the easy signal will be added on top of it.

We actually have to add the capacitor series with the signal, with the input signal, otherwise it

won't work.

This decoupling capacitors use because the whole supply requires decoupling to ground because it's inverting

input needs to appear as a signal ground whilst also being maintained at the half supply voltage.

Anyway, let's not stress about this capacitor too much now.

So then we feed an AC input signal.

Notice that the AC signal will be added on top of the output of that voltage.

Of course, amplified bingo.

This is how we can use a non-working amplifier sorry, an emerging amplifier to amplify the 41 positif

power supply.