Now, as I said, some time back, you might see some other components around here, livestock investors

and things like that around the world.

That is to change the bandwidth before this is effectively an ideal that has an infinite bandwidth that

each of these pregnancies and signals.

But in practice and no, of course not your practical options might have a one megahertz band, five

or 100 kilohertz band bandwidth or something like that.

You know, you know, it could be a nice first hundred megahertz, but it's always going to have a bandwidth

which changes with your gain or gain bandwidth product.

So it is let's see how the input signals frequency affects the overall gain of the iPad, which is one

of the important limitations of any practical all that that you must be aware of.

So let's get started.

It's all about speed in an ideal world, an op responds accurately and instantly to an audio or video

signal, but in the real world, there is a limit on the highest frequency.

So what do we mean exactly by optimise bandwidth, you might ask.

Let's take a typical up, open looking configuration.

And as we know, we can't feed DC or AC into the EP with.

Let's just do a dummy applications here so we grant the inverting pin.

So this will be at zero worlds and we feed into the non-working a sine wave which goes from positive

piebald to negative five volts.

Well, in this case, when the time is about zero volts, the computer output will hit the positive

rate.

So if you powered the up MPF 15 volts, the output will be 15 words.

And when the time drops below zero, what the computer's output will hit the negative real, which is,

let's say, minus 15 words.

I hope this is clear.

Until here we have seen how a competitor works in the first course.

Now, of course, the output hits both positive and negative because the open loop gain is so huge that

the output just bumps into the true power is.

Of course, this only happens if you have a real to real input OPAP.

Otherwise the output will be slightly lower than the positive or negative power supply.

But anyway, there's an interesting thing happening here, or it would happen if we increase gradually

the frequency of the input signal.

So as the frequency of the input signal increases the gain.

So the open loop gain, the internal open gain of the up decreases gradually with the increase of the

input signal frequency.

So if you were to plot this, it would look something like this.

The horizontal axis is the frequency of the input signal and the vertical axis is the open loop voltage

gain.

We can see here based on this graph that, well, until 10 hertz, which is nothing very low, the gain

of the up is fairly constant.

It's 10 at the power of five.

But after just ten hertz, the gain drops significantly and around 100 kilohertz, the gain is just

ten.

So although operators have a fairly high gain, this level of gain starts to fall at a low frequency.

The open loop breakpoint, like, for example, the frequency of speech, the gain has fallen by three

decimal.

So, again, what do we mean by bandwidth?

Well, the operational amplifiers bandwidth is the frequency range over which the voltage gain of the

amplifier is about 70 percent or minus three decibel of its maximum output value.

One of the main reasons why UPS generally have a low breakpoints is that a feature called compensation

is incorporated into virtually all options.

This frequency compensation is used to ensure that the option remains stable under all operating conditions.

The very earliest albums were prone to instability and as a result, compensation was introduced into

virtually all op ed designs.

As a matter of course, the effect of the compensation on the upper bandwidth is to reduce the breakpoint.

This means that if no compensation had been incorporated, the breakpoint and there would be greater.

But are the cost of instability.

Anyway, you might probably won't even hear he options in this configuration.

Well, you can see how volatile the gain is as the frequency increases.

Oh, it's horrible when designing a real circuit using an OP.

Negative feedback is used to give controlled levels of gain.

Applying this feedback enables the very high gain to be traded for bandwidth.

In this way, very flat frequency response curves can be achieved within the required bandwidth.

It's amazing.

So we have a fairly high gain, around 100, which is more than enough, and the bandwidth of the OP

amp has been increased tremendously.

So until 10 kilohertz, the gain is constant and after 10 kilohertz, the gain starts to drop.

Now we can see how important it is to know why the end game bandwidth is so important.

You might build your circuit at home, you know, and on inverting amplifier with a gain of 10 and you

feed in a signal of, I don't know, 20 kilohertz and you will go mad because you will not understand

why your gain is just eight when you desire to be ten.

Well, it's because of the apparent limitation.

If you check the data, stofan up EMP.

In this case, I open the data of the popular seven four one up.

And you want to check the bandwidth of this.

Then somewhere down, there should be a parameter called bandwidth.

Here you are, so the bandwidth of this up under 25 degrees Celsius is one point five megahertz.

Hmm.

Isn't that too high?

And does this mean that we can feed the op ed with an input signal from one hertz up to one point five

megahertz?

So does it mean that until one point five megahertz, the gain of our amplifier is constant?

No, of course not, what you see here is what is called the gain bandwidth product here is only bandwidth,

but it's actually the gain by the product.

So this frequency, this one point five megahertz is the frequency where the amplifiers gain becomes

unity, whether it's open loop or close the configuration.

So it's the frequency when the gain is equal to one.

So the specification that you will see in the data set the gain bandwidth product might be a megahertz.

You might think, great, I can use it in megahertz.

Well, only opportunity gain.

So for example, when we short the output with the inverting input, we get a circuit Korda's buffer

circuit.

And we know that the buffer circuit like this has a gain of one.

So yeah, if you are using a buffer, then your signal can go up to one point five megahertz and the

gain will still be one.

But you know, after that frequency, your gain will start decreasing.

If you start adding resistors and your gain becomes two or five or 100, whatever, your bandwidth will

going to drop accordingly in a linear relationship.

So you might ask, why are we interested in this game?

Better the product, after all?

Well, we can use this to calculate the bandwidth of our attempt at higher gains.

The gain bandwidth product, as the name implies, is equal to gain times bandwidth.

So, for example, if we have an option that has a gain bandwidth product of one megahertz and you're

not inverting amplifier amplifiers by 100, so the gain is 100, you know, and based on this equation,

the bandwidth becomes 10 kilohertz.

This means that up until 10 kilohertz, you can amplify signals by 100.

But after that frequency, unfortunately, your gain will start decreasing.

I hope I could make this gain bandwidth clear.

So using this parameter, we can calculate the bandwidth of our amp based on the desired gain we want

in the next course.

Let's see how we can increase the bandwidth of our OP amp so we can amplify a signal that higher frequencies.

See you next course.