All right, welcome back.

In the previous course, we discussed one of the limitations of any options, and that is they are banned.

If what is banned, if the operational amplifiers ban beef is the frequency range over which the voltage

gain of the amplifier is about 70 percent or minus three decibel of its maximum output value.

So an ideal operation amplifier has an even in frequency response.

I can amplify any frequency signals from D.C. to the highest frequencies.

So it is therefore assumed to have an infinite bandwidth.

With real options, the bandwidth is limited by the gain bandwidth product, which is equal to the frequency

where the amplifiers gain becomes unity, the gain that the product is a parameter that you can find

in the data set of the APEP, and it's equal to the gain times, the cut off frequency or bandwidth.

So the gain the bandwidth product is a constant number.

Right.

And based on this equation, you can see that the higher the gain, the lower the bandwidth.

So if you're OP AMP has a game bandwidth product of one megahertz and you want to amplify by you, you

might have a bandwidth of 500 kilohertz if you want your game to be 10.

The bandwidth is reduced to 100 kilohertz.

This means that if you want to amplify signals about 100 kilohertz, the gain, even though you have

said it to be 10, will be lower.

And if you want ever higher gain, the benefits reduced accordingly.

Now, let's say you want to build a inverting amplifier that amplifies the signal by a 100.

So we have a tiny input AC voltage that has to be amplified and the frequency of the signal is 50 kilohertz.

The signal might come from a sensor, you know, whatever.

So the gain the product of our up amp is one megahertz.

And for some reason we have to stick with this up amp because of some other features that it has, like

very high input impedance, etc..

What do we do?

Well, we know that the close look voltage gain of Anani inverting operation amplifier is given by this

equation.

Based on this equation we set are two to be ninety nine km and are one two one kilometre grade, which

is build a circuit that amplifies the signal by 100.

Really.

Does it really amplify the signal by 100.

Hmm.

Let's see.

So the gain bandwidth product of our up amp is one megahertz and our gain is one hundred.

So the bandwidth of our OP amp is one megahertz divided by 100, which is equal to 10 kilohertz.

So notice that the input signal is frequency, which is 50 kilohertz is not within our bandwidth.

And this means that the output signal will be attenuated by the upper implementation.

So the gain would be 100.

It would be probably 80 or 70.

I don't know.

So what can we do in case like this?

How can we increase the bandwidth of our OP amp?

Well, the best way to increase bandwidth is to cascade another up like this.

So both options are identical.

Of course, both have the same gain by this product.

But now we still want our 100 times gain out of here.

Right.

But of course, we don't do it in one stage.

We do times 10 and times then.

So we change our values there and we've still got our times 100 gain.

But what does it do to our bandwidth now actually driving?

This might be a little bit tricky, but in the end there's a very simple formula which can calculate

the total system bandwidth here for us.

Many stages as you want.

On one big assumption, the assumption is that all of the options are identical, I mean, identical

Gaborik product and identical gain.

But in our case, hey, that's perfect.

So the formula here is the water system bandwidth is equal to the bandwidth of one stage here multiplied

by the square root of due to the power of one on RN and being the number of stages in this case, it's

two stages.

So it would be two to the power of half and then minus one.

So square root of all that bingo.

We can pop this in the formula and determine our bandwidth.

Well, let's look at our two stage design here, we are just going to use this formula and plug the

numbers in.

Now, the bandwidth of one individual stage is not 10 kilohertz.

It was 10 kilohertz when the stage had the gain of 100.

But now, since the gain of one individual stages 10, the bandwidth of one stage is one megahertz divided

by ten, which is equal to 100 kilohertz, and multiplying it with the square root of two to the power

of one on N and by in two stages.

So two are the power of love.

Minus one equals two sixty four point thirty five kilohertz.

By adding a second stage and the second option and cascading them, we've now gone from 10 kilohertz

bandwidth to a sixty four point thirty six kilohertz bandwidth.

Look, it's six point four times better.

Awesome.

How many stages can we cascade, you might ask?

Can increase the bandwidth to infinite by having infinite stages?

Well, of course not.

We got a quite an improvement going from one stage to two stage in terms of bandwidth.

We increased it by an improvement of six point four times.

Fantastic.

But do we get the same improvement when we go to three stages?

Well, let's take a look at it now instead of times 10 again.

So the cube root of 100 is four point six four one six.

And yes, it does have to be that precise, especially if you are doing a precise circuit.

So with three stages of the numbers in the formula again, but our bandwidth is not 100 kilohertz of

each stage.

It's improved, it's more than double.

It's two hundred fifteen point forty four kilohertz.

So we improved the bandwidth of each stage now by lowering the gain, obviously, based on this formula.

But does it have an overall net improvement?

Well, yes, it does.

Part of the number in our total system bandwidth is now one hundred and nine point eighty four kilohertz,

which is a decent improvement on a sixty four kilohertz.

But it's not the huge six point four times improvement we got here.

It's only an extra one point seven times.

And if you go to four stages etc etc, you just get diminishing returns on our bandwidth.

So, you know, a practical limit, you can stop at three or four stages.