All right, guys, what we are going to learn in this chapter is about precision rectifiers.

What are active fires in the first place?

I don't have to go into details about rectifiers because it's something that we have learned in the

beginning of the course.

Well, the basic idea is this rectifiers what they do, they turn an AC voltage into a DC voltage.

So the output of the rectifier, the current will flow in only one direction.

Even if it's pulsating.

The current is flowing in one direction.

So it's a DC voltage.

They can be halfway ratifiers or full where rectifiers, a type of rectifier that converts only the

half cycle of the alternating current into direct current is known as Hathway Rectifier.

On the other hand, where rectifier converts both positive and negative half cycle of the AC into DC

has it provides double output voltage compared to the halfway rectifier.

Well, these rectifiers that we have learned so far are not precision rectifiers.

OK, they are ordinary rectifiers, if you want to call it like that.

However, precision rectifiers use open circuits.

What are the advantages of precision rectifiers, you might ask.

The first and the most important feature is that there is no dired voltage drop between input and output.

So we know that ordinary rectifiers like these Hafidh Rectifier, the output here is smaller than the

input with one diode drop, which is usually around zero point seven volts.

Depending on the dialogue with a fully rectifier, the output is smaller to dewdrops because there's

always two diode in conduction at each cycle of the AC voltage.

Now, if precision rectifiers avoid this dial drop, it means that they can rectify very small voltages,

even very much smaller than the diode forward voltage of zero point seven.

What's the next advantage is that the rectified output can be amplified if required.

The next advantage is that the output impedance is very low, right?

And UPB has very high input impedance, so there is no current flowing into the upper end and very low

output impedance, meaning that the output voltage will not drop when it needs to drive a load and its

overall position rectifiers are close approximation of an ideal diode because of absence of forward

voltage drop.

Let's begin with looking at how a halfway procedure rectifier works.