All right, so the most basic Hathway procedure, rectifier, is made up of just an iPad and the diode

that sort it.

These two components are connected in such a clever way that we can rectify input energy signals even

smaller than these diodes forward, what is drop?

We will see that in a simulator in a minute.

So if we look at this circle carefully, we can notice that the negative feedback of the EMP is connected

after the diode.

So it's connected after the voltage drop.

What does rule number two says?

The app will do whatever it can to keep both its inputs are the same voltage.

In his case, the up will output the voltage that is with one diode drop higher than the input wattage

so that after the diode the negative feedback we have the same voltage, then the voltage on the non

inverting pin.

It makes sense, right?

So if the forward voltage drop of the diode is zero point zero watts, then the opposite will output

a voltage that is equal to the input voltage plus the forward voltage drop of the diode.

This is not magic.

This is just how an option works.

I call you the upper will do whatever it can to keep both inputs the same voltage.

And in this case, because there's a dial drop here and the negative feedback is connected after the

dialed, the OP amp will have to output of wattage.

That is one dial drop higher than the input with it.

Of course, the open part powered well in this case with only positive voltage because the upper will

never have to output a negative voltage.

Right.

So in this case, the negative power can be simply grounded and the voltage on the positive power pin

has to be chosen so that the output voltage doesn't exceed its value.

All right, here we are, the up here is powered wi we've plus 15 volts and zero volts.

Well, there there's really no need to power these 15 words since our input voltage is just 500 millivolts.

Wave signal the result after the ratification, since this is just a halfway rectifier or the positive

cycle will pass through.

Right.

And so this positive cycle naughties has the same voltage, the positive cycle of our sine wave.

Amazing.

We avoided this dial drop.

Now using the circuit, we can rectify signals even smaller than 700 million volts.

And just for the record, I will show you that the opposite indeed outputs a voltage that is higher

with one drop.

Since this diode is a general-purpose diode, it starts conducting at 500 millivolts.

And so the forward voltage drop of this diode is 512 watts.

And notice that the signal at this point is one word.

And after the diode, it's 500 million watts.

So this is how the UPM keeps both inputs the same voltage.

How clever this option is.

Right.


