I will come back in the previous course, we have seen how to design a basic hotfix procedure rectifier,

right.

But now what happens if you want to rectify our reporting all in the same time?

We want to amplify it.

Usually procedure rectifiers deal with very low wattages, OK?

And they often have to be amplified in order to be processed further.

Is it possible to configure an option to rectify our position and to amplify it in the same time?

The result is possible before a little ingenuity.

This time, the input signal will be applied to the inverting input.

Don't be scared by this secret.

It's not complicated at all.

What is required is basically it's an inverting amplifier.

But by connecting the studios in this way, we get the halfway procedure rectifier that can even amplify

the input signal.

Why is it called this precision rectifier?

Because there is no 700 millivolts dial drop, even though the inputs only swings 500 millivolts.

Let's say it can still be rectified.

Now, you might wonder how this report works.

Let's start by examining what happens when the input signal is negative.

So we are in the negative cycle.

All right.

I have paused the simulator.

That's why the input signal is not oscillating anymore.

There's actually one thing you have to know to be able to analyze the circuit, and that is rule number

two, the OP tries to keep both inputs are the same voltage since the 1930s.

Input is on the ground.

So it's a zero at this point here.

Has to be always at the ground as well.

Right.

So the upper has to play with the output voltage in such a way so that it can keep this point always

the the ground, regardless of the input voltage.

Now, the two 10 km resisters acts as a voltage divider with one end of the input and the other end

at the output and the middle ground, you know what?

Let's change this input wattage for a moment to a DC voltage, which outputs a voltage of minus 500

million plus or minus zero point five would probably you will get it easier.

The question is, how can we keep this middle point of the ground than one end of the resistor?

Is that input and the other end is that output very easy?

If this point is at minus zero, point five at this point has to be plus zero point five words.

But since there is a diode here, the output voltage will be zero point five volts plus one diode drop.

So in order to keep the middle point at ground and if this end is powered with minus zero point fireballs,

the OP has to output a voltage of zero point firewalled plus the forward voltage drop of the diode so

that after the diode we get plus zero point five wood.

So if this end is a zero point firewall's, at the other end is at minus zero point five, this will

be at ground, of course.

Now the input voltage is DC, but then it's AC.

The output voltage will vary with the input, but it will vary in a way so that this point is always

at the ground.

Great.

Now let me change this back to AC.

OK.

Now, note here that since the input signal is applied to the inverting pin, it's the negative cycle

that we pass through and not the positive, it is bothering us that the negative cycle passes and not

the positive one.

Hmm, I don't think so.

Now, let's examine what happens during the positive half cycle, so let me pause the simulator somewhere

around the peak.

All right.

When the input signal is positive, what happens?

Well, the UPS output goes negative to keep the inverting pin on the ground.

So unlike the basic halfway precision rectifier that we have seen in the previous course, this time

the OP amp has to be powered with negative voltage as well.

Why?

Because during the positive half cycle, notice that the output goes negative in order to turn this

diode on.

And by this, the OP amp will keep this point here at ground zero.

Current flows through the upper resistor or diode.

So the output is around again.

Why is the output negative?

Because in this way the OP amp turns this diode on the output voltage is determined by the forward voltage

drop of this diode.

So if the forward what is drop?

It's a 400 millivolts, let's say the upper P output, minus 400 milliwatt.

If this diode has a forward wattage drop of 700 millivolts, the upper will output minus 700 milliwatts.

I know this is a tricky part.

You can either place diode in conduction by applying a positive voltage on the ANOD, which is, of

course, higher than the forward voltage of the diode.

Or you can apply a negative voltage on the cathode like here.

So why does the option do that?

Because in this way, the whole input signal will take this path and not this one.

So the output will be unaffected.

As we know, current always takes the path of least resistance.

Right.

And this path obviously has smaller resistance than this one here.

Right.

The diode has close to zero resistance and the upper amp has low output impedance as well.

In this way, by outputting a negative voltage, the op ed prevents the positive cycle to pass through,

which is exactly what we wanted because this is just a halfway rectifier.

Oh, and I almost forgot to show you that besides, ratification this year could get even amplify the

signal how since the core of the circuit is an inverted amplifier, the gain is equal to minus this

resistance divided by this one.

So right now, the gain is one, right?

Thank you.

I think it's one.

But if you change this to, let's say, 20 K.

The gain will be minus two, so as you can see, the upward with wattages, one would and not 500 millivolts

as it was before.

All right, thank you for watching.

In the next course, we'll see how a full array of rectifier works.

See you there.