It is often necessary to know how to measure current using a multimeter. Current measurements are

easy to make, but they are done in a slightly different way to the way in which voltage and other measurements

are made.

However, current measurements often need to be made to find out whether a circuit is operating correctly

or to discover other facts associated with its current consumption.

So current measurements can be made for a variety of test instruments.

But the most widely used piece of test equipment for making current measurements is a digital multimeter.

This test equipment is widely available and at very reasonable prices.

If you don't have yet a digital multimeter, I would highly encourage you to buy one, as it's one of the most

widely used piece of test equipment today, and they are almost invaluable in any electronics laboratory

for the home, hobbyists, and professional electronics engineers.

A typical multimeter may include features such as the ability to measure voltage, current and

resistance.

Often, they include several additional specialized features or advanced options.

Alright, alright, but how to measure current anyway? Using our simulator, we can easily measure

current and voltage at any point in our circuit.

So let's find out how.

So in this very basic circuit, we have a 5V battery, along with a resistor that will limit

the current flowing in this path.

So what we want is to measure the current that flows in this path.

How to do that?

Very easy.

Just right click anywhere in the circuit, then go to output and labels.

And then search for "ammeter". Well, ammeters are different than multi meters.

They can only measure current.

However, digital multimeters have this feature integrated inside of them along with many other things,

which is the reason why people prefer to just buy a multimeter rather than a separate ammeter.

So how can we use this ammeter?

Well, if we think logically, in order to measure the current, the electrons that are flowing in this

path has to go through our ammeter as well, right?

As a result, we place it in series with our circuit,

and for that, we have to break the circuit somewhere,

doesn't matter where we break, since the same amount of electrons are flowing everywhere in this path.

:)

And then we insert our ammeter.

Now, notice that around 50mA is flowing in the circuit. So if I haven't told you yet,

A(amper) is the unit for measuring electricity. Just like volt for potential difference or simply voltage

that we will soon see.

I highly recommend you to learn the common metric prefixes since the unit for measuring electricity

is ampere, all the equations that we will learn about that has current in it,

so the current has to be converted in ampere for the equation to be valid.

So let's take an example.

We talked briefly about Ohm's Law, right? Which states that voltage is equal to current times resistance.

From this equation,

resistance is equal to voltage divided by current.

We are doing some reverse engineering here to find out the value of this resistance, even though we

know it's 100 Ohm.

So let's plug the values in. 5V divided by and here instead of 50mA, we have to convert

it in ampers.

So 50mA is 0.05A.

Once you have some more experience, you will do these conversions in your head.

So 5V divided by 0.05A is 100 ohm.

Now I'll show you a trick that you can use.

So instead of bothering yourself to place this ammeter in your circuit, what you can simply do is to

get rid of it,

then close the circuit, and then double click on the wire where you want to measure the current and click

show current. Notice, there's a show voltage as well,

which as you will see I use that as well almost all the time.

So the result is the same, but it's just more convenient.

All right.

So we know that in order to measure current, we have to place the ammeter in series with the path.

and that's what you'll have

to do as well in real life.

The multimeter comes with two probes: red and black usually,

And you must break your circuit and connect your two probes at both ends,

so that current can pass through it.

All right.

Now that we know this, let us try to see how to measure the voltage.

Now, in order to measure the voltage, we have to understand what voltage is in the first place.

As stated, voltage is a potential difference between two points.

So potential difference,

to put it simply, is a difference in potential between two points.

If this point is at 5V and this one is a 0V, then the potential difference between the

two points is 5V-0V, which is, of course, 5V.

Now, remember that every electronic circuit must have a ground. Even if the circuit is powered by a battery,

>

there still must be a ground.

Ground is normally understood to be a place of return for electricity in a circuit.

In a circuit, you have a certain voltage at different parts.

Electric current moves through these places of voltage from highest to lowest,

like a reverse connect the dots. Ground, in most circuits, is where the voltage is zero, and

that's where everything ends its journey.

Without it, no current would actually flow. It's called "ground" because the ground has an electric potential

of just about zero.

So you could really send any current you want back into the ground if you have nowhere else to send it.

:)

We can even place a ground symbol here for convenience.

It won't change the circuit at all, but probably it's more visually appealing to see that here we have

ground.

Or what else we could do is to get rid of all these wires and place two grounds instead.

Again, it's exactly the same thing. In most cases, the voltage is measured between a particular point

and the ground or 0V line the circuit.

So all the voltages that we'll measure are referenced to ground, which means that all the voltages that we

measure are compared to ground.

So this is a general rule that you must obey and you must be consistent in your measuring.

If you decide to measure the voltage in a circuit, you must decide compare to which point you are measuring.

So how to do that?

Right-click again, go to outputs and labels and then click on "voltmeter".

Just like a digital multimeter which has two probes, the voltmeter has two ends.

So one end, which is labeled as plus, is the red probe,

and you place this red probe at the point in the circuit where you want to measure the voltage.

The other end is not a "must", but you should connect to ground.

And voila! The voltage is 5V compared to ground.

If you want to measure the voltage at this point, just disconnect it, and place it here.

And you will see it's 2.5V.

This means that 2.5V is dropped across this resistance, and the other 2.5V is dropped

across this resistance.

Remember that the voltage provided by the power source has to be dropped somewhere until reaches the

ground.

Otherwise, you create a short circuit.

So ground is always at 0V potential.

And since we have two equal resistances in series, 2.5V is dropped across the first one,

and the other 2.5V is dropped across the second one.

If we were to have only one resistance,

then the whole voltage will be dropped across it.

Now, of course, we won't bother ourself placing this voltmeter all the time, which is quite cumbersome

and makes the circuit look messy.

Instead, we just double click on the wire and click Show Voltage.

This voltage that you see here is referenced to ground as well.

So no matter at which point you measure the voltage, it will always be a relative to ground.