Up until this point, we have basically encountered two electrical components: batteries and resistors.

A battery is usually regarded as a voltage source that is typically used to power a circuit, right?

Your mobile phone, and laptop, all of them have a battery inside of them that will supply energy to your device

in order to operate.

But what about resistor?

What is its purpose and what does it do?

I'm not mistaken if I say that resistors are a critical piece in just about every circuit, and they

also play a major role in our favorite equation, which is Ohm's law. All resistors have two terminals,

one connection on each end of the resistor.

Now when modeled on a schematic, resistor will show up as one of these two symbols.

These are two common resistors schematic symbols.

R1 is an american-style 1k ohm resistor and R2 is an international style 47k ohm resistor.

:)

So this is just a personal preference.

If you are, let's say, American, you would be more inclined to use the American style resistor,

right?

But if you are not, you can go with the international style one.

It really doesn't matter as long as you are consistent with the symbol.

If you decide to use the American style, make sure that all the resistors are drawn in the same way

on your schematic.

Otherwise, it might be a little bit confusing. Here in the simulator,

I have this circuit that I have just opened randomly, and we can see that all resistors are drawn using

the American style.

But if you prefer, navigate to the Options tab and click European resistors.

Notice that all the resistors have been replaced with the international style.

But remember, whichever style you prefer, the functionality of your circuit will not change at all.

Awesome.

Now the resistor circuit symbols are usually enhanced with both a resistance value and a name.

The value displayed in ohms is obviously critical for both evaluating and actually constructing the circuit.

:)

The name of the resistor is usually an R preceding a number.

Each resistor in a circuit should have a unique name number so that people can make a distinction between

the multitude of resistors present in the circuit.

All right, so resistors can be drawn in two different ways.

And typically, when you build a circuit, you would give a name for each resistor as R1, R2 ...

or whatever name you prefer to give to each resistor.

It doesn't really matter how you name each resistor as long as you are consistent with it.

But in 99% of cases, resistors are named as R1, R2, R3 etc..

As I mentioned, along with the name, resistors also have a value.

"Resistor", the word "resistor" is the name of the component.

Resistance, on the other hand, is the intrinsic property of each resistor.

The electrical resistance of the resistor is measured in ohms.

The symbol for an Ohm is the Greek capital Omega.

The definition of one ohm is the resistance between two points where one volt of applied potential energy

will push one ampere of current.

This is the definition of what an Ohm is.

And this fact can be easily derived using Ohm's Law, which says that voltage is equal to current times resistance.

As the international system of units go, larger or smaller values of ohms can be matched

with a prefix like kilo, mega or giga to make larger values easier to read.

It's very common to see resistors in the kilo-ohm and mega-ohm range much less common to see milli-ohm resistors.

:)

For example, a 4700-ohm resistor is equivalent to a 4.7k ohm resistor

and a 5,600,000 ohm resistor

can be written as 5,600k ohm or more commonly as 5.6M ohms.

What's interesting about resisters is that in real world, if you look at them closely, you will see

some color bands.

These color bands are used to indicate the actual value of the resistor.

Most of these resisters will have four bands of color, circling around the resistor, though you will

also find five-band and six-band resistors. In the standard four bands resistors,

the first two bands indicate the two most significant digits of the resistor's value.

The third band is a weight value, which basically multiplies the two significant digits by a power of 10.

:)

The final band indicates the tolerance of the resistor.

The tolerance explains how much more or less the actual resistance of the resistor can be compared to

what its nominal value is.

You see, no resistor is made to perfection, and different manufacturing processes will result in better

or worse tolerances.

For example, a 1k ohm resistor with a 5% tolerance could actually be anywhere between 0.95k ohm

and 1.05k ohm.

Normal resistors have color codes on them.

If you don't know what they mean, that's OK.

There are plenty of online calculators that are easy to use.

If you navigate to this website, there's a beautiful interface you can play with to see how the different

colors effect the value of the resistor.

So the number of bands is set to four and let's say the colour of the first band is red.

The second is green.

Then let's say we use a multiplier of 10, which corresponds to the colour of brown.

And finally, the tolerance, which let's say it's five percent.

Notice that the resistor value based on the colours that we have chosen is 250 ohms with a tolerance

of five percent.

You see, the reason why there is a tolerance specified is because it is very difficult to manufacture

or resistors to very precise value, especially in mass production.

It takes time and effort.

Even then, there will be a tolerance which is acceptable plus or minus 10 percent plus or minus one

percent or plus or minus 0.1 percent.

How accurate do you need it to be?

Electronics generally works quite well with a 10 or 20 percent of tolerance of signals, except in highly

accurate, highly demanding equipment where a much higher accuracy is required,

plus or minus 10 percent is quite satisfactory.

If you need higher accuracy, you or someone else must carefully control the manufacturing environment

and measure components in a controlled environment to produce that consistently.

That, unfortunately, takes time and money to do.

So. highly accurate components cost more.

So the colour bands indicate the value of the resistor.

But does this mean that the only way to find the value of the resistor is by us trying to decode these

colour bands?

Of course not.

The truth is, many engineers don't know how to read or how to decode these colour bands.

Why?

Well, because there's a relatively easier way to find the value of a resistor. By using a multimeter!

If you are holding a resistor in your hand and you are wondering what its resistance might be instead

of trying to decode it based on the colour bands, you would take a multimeter and measure its resistance.

So pick out a random resistor and set the multimeter to the 20k ohm setting. Then hold the probes against

the resistor legs with the same amount of pressure, and the meter will read one of the three things:

Zero point zero zero one or the actual resistor value.

In this case, as you can see, the meter reads 0.97, meaning that this resistor has a value of 970 ohm

or about 1k ohm.

If the multimeter reads one or displays OL, it's overloaded, you will need to try a higher mode,

such as 20k ohm mode or 20M*ohm mode.

There's no harm,

If this happens, it simply means that the range knob needs to be adjusted. If the multimeter reads

0.00 or nearly zero,

then you need to lower the mode to 2k ohm or 200 ohms.

Now, let's drop the meter down to the next lower setting, which is 2k ohm. What's gonna happen?

Well, not a whole lot changed. Because this resistor is less than 2k ohm,

It still shows up on the display.

However, you will notice that there is one more digit after the decimal point, giving us a slightly

higher resolution in our reading.

What about the next lower setting?

Now, since 1k ohm is greater than 200 ohm, we've maxed out at the meter, and it is telling you that

it is overloaded and that you need to try a higher value setting. As a rule of thumb,

it's rare to see a resistor less than 1 ohm.