One of the first things you will have to learn when dealing with resistors is calculating the total

amount of resistance when two or more resistors are connected in series or in parallel.

You see many times in electronics, especially when you are building your own circuit.

There are situations when you want to place, let's say, a 500-ohm resistor somewhere in your circuit,

but unfortunately you realize that you don't have a 500 ohm resistor.

One solution would be that you go out and buy a 500 ohm resistor at your local store or you order it

online.

Or the other solution is by combining multiple resistors in a way that the total resistance will be

500 ohms.

If you have, let's say, two 1k ohm resistors, by connecting them in parallel, you would get an equivalent

resistance of 500 ohms. Or if you have, let's say, two 250 ohms resistors by placing them in series,

the equivalent resistance of this configuration would be again 500 ohms.

So resistors can be connected in either series or parallel. When resistors are connected end-to-end

in a circuit like it is shown here, they are said to be in "series". In order to find the total resistance

of resistors in series,

you basically just have to add up the value of each resistor.

In this example, the total resistance would be R1 plus R2, which would be equal to 3k ohms.

So we have a 1.5k ohm resistor in series with another 1.5k ohm resistor.

So the total resistance will be the sum of these two resistances.

Pretty easy, right?

So here's another example of a number of resistors in series.

The total value of the resistances across the voltage V is R1 plus R2 plus R3 plus R4 and plus R5.

Now let's do a little exercise with Ohm's law in mind. Using this circuit diagram,

let's solve for the value of the missing resistance R.

So we have a DC power source of 50 volts, and the current flowing in the circuit is two amps.

What would be the value of R in this case?

Well, first and foremost, we have to figure out the equivalent resistance of the entire circuit.

From Ohms Law,

we know that resistance is equal to voltage divided by current.

Therefore, the total resistance present in the circuit would be 50 volts divided by two amps, which

is equal to 25 ohms.

So we know that by adding up all the resistances, the result would be 25 ohms.

So five ohms plus three ohms plus four plus seven plus R is equal to 25 ohms.

And from this equation, we can calculate the value of R, which results to be six ohms.

Now, the main takeaway from this little exercise was that if you have a fixed DC power source of 50V

and you want no more than two amps of current to flow in your circuit, you can either connect

bunch of resistors in series as shown here, or you could just use a single resistor with a value of

twenty five ohms.

Both circuits will work exactly the same way, and the same current will flow in both circuits.

Try building both of these circuits in the simulator and see whether the current is identical.

Now, as I have mentioned previously, resistors can be connected not only in series, but in parallel

as well.

You see, parallel resistors are resistors that are connected across from each other, in an electrical circuit.

In this circuit R1, R2 and R3 are all connected in parallel to each other.

When be calculated the series resistance,

We added up the resistances of each resistor to get the equivalent resistance.

This makes sense because the current of a voltage across the resistors will travel evenly across each

resistor.

In other words, the same amount of current will flow through each resistor.

Remember that in a closed-loop circuit like this, the current will be the same,

no matter at which point you are measuring it. When resistors are in parallel,

this is not the case.

Some of the current will travel through R1, some through R2, and some through R3. Each resistor,

provides an additional path for the current to travel. So, in order to calculate the total resistance

across the voltage V, we use the following formula:

As you can see, the reciprocal of the total resistance is the sum of the reciprocal of each resistance

in parallel.

And now let's take an example. In this circuit, we have three resistors in parallel, one having a value

of 4 ohms, the other 5 ohms and 20 ohms, respectively.

The question is what's the total resistance? By applying this formula and replacing it with the actual

values of the resistors,

we get a total resistance of two ohms.

I won't go through each step of the calculations.

I guess it's pretty self-explanatory.

Now, note that the total resistance is less than any of the resistors in parallel, and this will be

always the case.

The equivalent resistance will always be less than the smallest resistor in parallel.

Now you might ask, what do you do when you have a circuit with both parallel and series resistors?

The idea for solving these types of circuits is to break down smaller parts of the circuits into a series

and parallel sections.

First, do any sections that have only series resistors. Then, replace those with the equivalent resistance.

Next,

solve the parallel sections, and now replace those with equivalent resistors.

Continue through these steps until you reach the solution.

So let's take an example.

The task is to solve the equivalent resistance across the voltage V, in this electrical circuit.

First, we will total the two series resistors on the right and on the left, and now we have reduced

the circuit.

We see on the right that the total resistor 6 and the resistor 12 are now in parallel.

We can solve for these parallel resistors to get the equivalent resistance of 4, and the new circuit

diagram is shown here. From this circuit we solve for the series resistors 4 and 11 to get 15.

And now we have two parallel resistors, 15 and 10, and we already know the formula for parallel resistors.

In this case, we have only two resistors in parallel.

So the formula will be: 1/R equal to 1/15 +1/10.

And from this equation, the equivalent resistance across V is 6 ohms.

So what now?

What's the actual purpose of finding out the total resistance, you might ask?

Well, if you think about it, now that we know that the total resistance of the circuit is 6 ohms,

we can calculate the total amount of current flowing in the circuit.

If you were to have a 12V battery for example,

using ohms law, the total amount of current that would flow in the circuit is 2A.

:)

Knowing this, you could calculate how long the battery will last until it gets fully discharged.