One of the most important and basic laws of electrical circuits is Ohms Law, which states that the

current passing through a conductor is proportional to the voltage over the resistance. Ohms law may

sound a bit confusing when written in words,

but it can be described by a simple formula where 'V' is voltage 'I' is current and 'R' is resistance.

This same formula can also be written in order to calculate for the current or the resistance.

Here's a diagram showing current voltage and resistance in a circuit.

Now, any one of these can be calculated using Ohm's Law,

if you know the values of the other two. So what does Ohm's Law actually describe?

You see, Ohm's Law describes the way current flows through a resistance when a different electrical potential,

or voltage, is applied at each end of the resistance.

One way to think of this is as water flowing through a pipe.

The voltage is the water pressure.

The current is the amount of water flowing through the pipe, and the resistance is the size of the

pipe.

More water will flow through the pipe, the more pressure is applied and the bigger the pipe is.

So the bigger the pipe, the lower the resistance and more current will flow. Just so that I'm sure everyone

understands Ohm's Law

Let's answer to a couple of questions together.

First, if the resistance of an electrical circuit is increased, what will happen to the current assuming

the voltage remains the same?

You can pause the video and think about what the answer might be.

So the answer to this question is,

The voltage will decrease. Based on the current equation,

The higher the resistance, the lower the current will be, the higher the resistance, the narrower the

pipe will be

so less amount of water will or electrons will flow through the circuit.

All right.

The second question is if the voltage across a resistance is doubled.

What will happen to the current?

So current is equal to voltage divided by resistance, right?

If we double the voltage across the same resistor, you must also double the current for the equation

to remain true.

The third question is what is the voltage 'V' in this circuit?

So we know that 2 amps of current is flowing in this circuit and the resistor has a value of 13 ohms.

What might be the voltage that will produce a current of 2 amps to flow in the circuit, knowing that

the resistance is 13 ohms?

Well, the answer is quite simple.

We apply Ohm's Law formula, which says that voltage is equal to current times resistance.

So 2 amps times 13 ohms is equal to 26 volts.

Awesome.

So here are some interesting facts about ohms law.

You see, Ohm's Law is generally applied only to direct current (DC) circuits and not alternating current (AC) circuits.

In AC circuits, because the current is constantly changing,

other factors, such as capacitance and inductance, must be taken into account.

The concept behind Ohm's Law was first explained by German physicist George Ohm, who the law is also

named after.

The tool for measuring volts in an electrical circuit is called a voltmeter.

An ammeter is used to measure the current, and an ohmmeter is used for measuring resistance.

Three different equipments for measuring three different things.

But as I explained previously, you can just use a multimeter that can measure several functions,

including voltage, current, resistance, and many other things.

And now let's head to our simulator for a fun exercise. In this circuit

we have a 5V DC source,

and we have two resistors in parallel. One resistor has a value of 100 ohms and the

second has a value of 1k ohms.

The task is to find the current flowing on both branches and the overall current.

Now, without doing anything, we can notice that the current flowing on the first branch somehow moves

faster than on the second branch.

In this simulator, the faster the current moves, the higher the current compared to other parts of the

circuit.

So this is a nice visual clue telling us that on this branch, more current flows compared to the second

branch.

And why is that?

Well, that's because the resistance is lower on this branch than on this one.

And now let's apply Ohm's Law to calculate the current on both branches

but actually, before we do that, you must understand something, OK?

So, when we have a power source, and then we have a couple of other components connected in parallel with

the voltage source

then the voltage drop across each component, situated in parallel with the voltage source, is equal

to the power source voltage.

In this case, the voltage of the power source is 5V

This means that 5V will be dropped across the first resistor and 5V will be dropped

across the second resistor.

We can place as many resistors in parallel

the voltage drop across each resistor will be equal to 5V.

And if you don't believe it,

Hover your mouse over a resistor and on the bottom right corner, you will see that the voltage drop across

this resistor is indeed 5V, and the voltage drop across the second resistor is also 5V.

For now, just remember that when multiple electrical components like resistors, for example, are

connected in parallel with a voltage source, the same amount of voltage will be dropped across each resistor.

All right.

Now that we know that 5V is dropped across the first resistor and 5V across the second

resistor, we can calculate the current flowing through each resistor.

How? By applying Ohm's Law! Current is equal to voltage divided by resistance, so 5V, divided

by 100, is equal to 50mA and 5V divided by 1k ohm is 5mA.

We can notice that on the branch with higher resistance, a lower amount of current will flow than compared

to the branch with lower resistance.

Now let me ask you something.

How much current does the battery supply constantly to the whole circuit?

:)

Well, if 50mA is flowing in the first branch and 5mA is flowing in the second branch,

then logically the battery needs to supply 55mA for the overall circuit.

And now you might say, hold on a second.

You just told me that in a closed loop circuit, the same amount of current will flow no matter where

we measure it.

In this case, 55mA flowing here, 50mA is flowing there

and 55mA is flowing back to the battery.

How is it possible that 50mA is flowing through the resistor and not 55mA?

Well, if I were to disconnect this branch for a second.

Notice that the situation has been changed, and now indeed, the same amount of current is flowing

in this closed loop circuit. In order to truly understand how a DC circuit works

you have to understand Kirchhoff's current and voltage law.

There are two laws that you will have to learn in order to master and analyze DC circuits.

But we are not there yet.

Be patient in the next chapter, we will learn about these two laws

but until then, I still want to show you some interesting things.

I will see you next, course.