You might have noticed that up until now I was using the term voltage drop quite often, but I have

never explained what that actually means.

For example, in the previous course I was saying that when you have a circuit with parallel components,

like in this case where we have two resistors in parallel, the same amount of voltage will be dropped

across both resistors.

All right.

All right.

But what does voltage drop supposed to mean anyway?

As we already know, a battery converts chemical energy into electrical energy, producing a voltage.

That is a difference in electric potential across its two terminals.

A resistor is a component that creates a specified amount of resistance to electric current.

Then we connect the two terminals of the resistor to the two terminals or four battery charge carriers.

Move through the circuit and we call this electric current.

Voltage conveys the ability to do work of moving charge from one point to another.

Five watts battery, for example, can do five joules of work per coulomb of charge.

Then current is flowing through a resistor.

We can measure the amount of work required to keep the current flowing through the resistor.

This is the essence of what is drop a battery or voltage source supplies energy for doing the work of

moving towards where current is flowing.

Components such as resistors consume energy and the amount of work per unit charge associated with the

current flowing through a given component is the components for each drop.

The voltage dropped by a component account for a portion of the voltage generated by the battery.

In other words, the work performed by the battery is divided up among the components in the circuit.

In this circuit we have a battery and a resistor.

In Series A, a resistor always functions as a load.

That is a component that consumes energy.

If we adopt the conventional current flow model in which current flows from higher voltage to lower

voltage, the voltage drop across the resistor is positive where the current enters the resistor and

the negative, where the current exits the resistor.

This is very important to remember as we will use this extensively when we learn about kickoffs, current

and more importantly, kickoffs.

Murphy's Law.

So again, this diagram shows the current flow model depicting how of what is drop is positive where

current enters a resistor and the negative where it exits.

If we were to have two resistors in a series, the position of the size of would not change.

And that's because the direction of the current doesn't change.

In this simple circuit the world is produced by the battery is drop across the first and the second

resistor.

Let's do a fun exercise.

We have a 12 watts battery and we have a one kilogram and a dual kg resistor in series with each other.

The task is to calculate the voltage drop across the first and the second resistor.

Well, to calculate that, we need to know the amount of current flowing in this circuit.

We have a series here with so the same amount of current will flow at every point of the circuit.

To calculate the current.

We need to find out the total opposition to the current.

In other words, the equivalence resistance or the total resistance we have to resistors series.

So the total resistance will be the sum of the two resistances.

So the total resistance is three kg.

Knowing this, we can apply Ohm's Law to find the current 12 words.

Divided by three columns is equal to four billions.

So for millions we flow to r one.

And for millions of course we flow two or two to find out the amount of wattage that is dropped across

each resistor.

We can use again Ohm's Law, which says that voltage is equal to current times resistance.

So the voltage drop across R one will be four milliamps times one kilogram, which is for volts, and

the voltage drop across or two will be four milliamps times two kg, which is eight voids.

Do you notice something interesting here?

If you add up the two of what is drops, it will equate to the voltage of the battery.

And you can add this many resistors in series of spin you want and the sum of all the voltage drops

will be equal to the voltage provided by the voltage source.

In this case, the voltage of the battery van Gustaf Kirchhoff noticed this.

He developed the theory called Conservation of Energy, better known as Kirchhoff Voltage Law, which

we'll talk in more detail in the next chapter.

Alright.

So after this simple exercise we can intuitively recognize that driving a given amount of current to

more resistance will require more work.

And as a result, if two resistors are a series meaning that they have the same current flow, the resistor

with more resistance has a larger voltage drop.

And this is the basis of the operation of the voltage divider circuit.