All right, guys.

So we had this circuit composed of a 5V

DC power source and two resistors in series.

If you were to calculate the total amount of current flow in the circuit, how would you start?

Well, first you need to calculate the total opposition to the current flow in the circuit.

In other words, the total resistance or the equivalent resistance, however you want to call it right.

There are two resistors in series, so the equivalent resistance will be the sum of both resistances,

which is 2k ohms. Now using Ohm's Law

The current is equal to voltage divided by resistance, so 5V divided by 2k ohms is

2.5mA.

And now let's do something fun.

Let's try to find out the voltage with respect to ground, of course.

So let's calculate the voltage between these two resistors.

In the real world, you would pick your multimeter and you would then place the red probe here and the black

probe to the ground. Here in the simulator

We can use something called analog output.

If I place the analog output between the two resistors.

And then I double click on it and check, show voltage

I can see the voltage at this point.

The voltage that we are measuring between these two resistors is compared to ground and the ground

is always, always at 0V potential.

You can also name ground as a 'reference point' if you prefer, a reference point in which voltages are

measured.

And if you don't like this piece of wire here, remove it and connect two grounds.

The circuit has not changed at all.

All right, all right.

I talked too much about ground when in fact, I wanted to ask you, why do you think the voltage between

these two resistors is 2.5V?

Have you heard about something called voltage drop?

You see, just like any electronic component that you can imagine, whether it's diode, transistor

inductor, capacitor, when current is running through a component which in our case is resistor

There will be a voltage drop across the component, OK?

In simple terms, a voltage drop is defined as the amount of voltage loss that occurs through the parts

of a circuit due to resistance.

So when current meets resistance, the current will say, OK, I'm carrying all this voltage on

my shoulders

I will have to drop some voltage here and actually the current needs to drop all of the voltage carrying

until it reaches ground.

Otherwise, you will create a short circuit.

So let's call this voltage that we are measuring as the output voltage of the circuit.

How can we calculate this output voltage without measuring it?

By applying Ohm's Law. Ohm's Law is the only equation that you will ever need in electronics.

I'm kidding, of course.

You will need two more equations anyway.

Ohm's law says that voltage is equal to current times resistors.

This time we want to calculate the voltage that is dropped across this resistor.

And fortunately, we already know that 2.5mA is flowing through it.

So all we need to do is just a multiplication. 2.5mA times

1k ohm is 2.5 volts.

If 2.5 volts is dropped across the second resistor, how much voltage do you think it's dropped across

the first resistor?

2.5V, of course. We have a 5V DC source

So this 5V has to be dropped across something, anything until the current reaches ground.

You know what?

Actually, let me show you what a short circuit is.

Let's remove these resistors for a second

and connect this with a wire.

As you can see, the simulator has crashed and the battery would have exploded in your face if you were

holding it down here, it says that voltage source slash wire loop with no resistance.

So if you apply ohms law, current is equal to voltage divided by resistance.

But since we have no resistance, the current flowing in this circuit would be 5V divided by

zero and try dividing 5 by 0 and see how much current is going to flow.

Believe me, you don't want that.

So let's place everything back.

All right.

So 2.5V is dropped across the first resistor and 2.5V is dropped across the second resistor.

Hence, the ground is at 0V potential.

Now we have just built our first circuit that actually does something.

We successfully halved the power source voltage. From 5V

we have created 2.5V and this circuit is what we call a 'voltage divider'. A voltage divider circuit

as

the one we have here is a simple circuit, which turns a large voltage into a smaller one.

Using just two or series resistors and an input voltage, we can create an output voltage that is a

fraction of the input.

Voltage dividers are one of the most fundamental circuits in electronics.

If learning Ohm's Law was like being introduced to the ABC's, learning about voltage dividers would

be like learning how to spell 'cat'.

The voltage divider circuit cannot generate the higher voltage than the input voltage.

That would be amazing if it could do that, but it can convert the input voltage to any voltage between

zero volts and the input voltage.

So instead of 2.5V, let's try to generate 3.3V.

You see, many microcontrollers are running on 3.3V.

So if you were to have nothing else but a battery of 5V, you would need to reduce that voltage

a little bit to power to microcontroller.

So how do we calculate the two resistances so that the output voltages 3.3V?

This circuit, in fact, is so popular that it has its own equation, which says that the output

voltage is equal to the input voltage

times R2 divided by R1 plus R2.

All right.

So R2, divided by R1 plus R2, determines the scale factor.

So 3.3V is equal to 5V times R2 divided by R1 plus R2.

And here's the thing. We have an equation with two unknown variables, right?

What should be the value of R1 and what should be the value of R2?

You might ask.

First thing that you have to understand is a voltage is divided by itself is useless, right?

The divider needs to feed its output into something.

Sometimes that something is a bias adjustment on an op-amp circuit or sometimes the feedback voltage

on a voltage regulator.

There are thousands of things that a divider could be feeding, like a microcontroller

as I have said previously, although powering a microcontroller from a voltage divider is not really a wise

choice.

You will soon understand why.

So whatever the divider is feeding, it's going to take current and how much of current the circuit

you are feeding will consume will actually determine the value of R1 and R2, which we talk about

in more detail in the next course.