In this video, I'm going to show you what happens with the output voltage when you connect this voltage

divider to another circuit.

As I mentioned in the previous course, this circuit is pretty useless if the output voltage is not

connected to anything.

There are thousands of things that the voltage divider could be feeding, but whatever it is, we can

abstract that circuit away by replacing it with a simple resistor.

So let's assume that the voltage divider is feeding a resistor, and we will call this resistor as

the load resistance or simply load. In electronics

the device, which takes electrical energy is known as the electrical load.

In other words, the electrical load is a device that consumes electrical energy in the form of current

and transforms it into other forms like heat, light work, etc. The resistor consumes electrical energy

and will transform that energy into heat.

So the more current is passing through a resistor, the hotter it will get.

All resistors have a power rating, which defines how much current can pass through the resistor without

damaging it.

This is really an off topic right now, but we will talk about this in more detail in another course.

For now, let's just name this resistor as 'load'.

All right ?

As we have seen in the previous course, the output voltage of the divider with two 1k ohm

resistors is 2.5 volts.

And based on the voltage divider equation, as long as both resistances are equal, the output voltage

will always be half the input voltage coming from the DC voltage source.

So a rule of thumb, when both resistors are equal, the output voltage is half the input.

Now let's connect the load.

To the circuit.

And my question to you right now is, are these two resistors still in a series connection?

What do you think?

Well, the answer is not really.

They were indeed in series when the load was not connected to the divider.

But the thing is, once the voltage divider is supplying current to a load, as it is the case right now

:)

The current that is passing through R1 is not equal to the current passing through R2.

And why is that?

Well, that's because some of the current passing through R1 is going through R2, and some of the

current passing through R1 is going towards the load.

The load requires current and the voltage source supplies it through R1. The voltage divider equation

only works if the current passing through R1 and R2 are equal, meaning that they are connected

in series.

What do you think the value of the output voltage is right now?

Is it still 2.5V?

Let's double click on the wire and click Show Voltage.

Surprise.

The voltage is no more 2.5V, and this equation is not valid anymore.

You can already see one of the big disadvantages of this simple voltage divider circuit.

Imagine that you have a circuit that for any reason, you need to power it with 2.5V

But once you connected the input of your circuit to the output of the voltage divider, the output voltage

suddenly drops and your circuit won't work as intended.

So let's try to find out why the output voltage has been reduced from 2.5V to 1.9V.

As I have mentioned, when a load is connected to the circuit, the current passing through R1 and R2

will not be equal.

And the reason of it is because the load demands some current. How much of current will demand?

Well, that depends on its resistance.

The lower the value of the load resistance, the more current will demand.

This is basic ohms law and the higher the value of the load resistor, the lower amount of current

will flow through it.

If, let's say we have a 1M ohm resistor instead, which is a very high resistance, right, just

a very tiny amount of current will flow through the load and notice that the output voltage suddenly

came back to 2.5V as the voltage divider was supposed to do.

But notice that as the load resistance decreases

More current will pass through it.

And the output voltage of the voltage divider is decreasing, so there must be some explanation why

this happens.

What we have found out until now is that if there is no load attached to the circuit, the voltage divider

equation is valid.

But once the voltage divider needs to supply current to a circuit, this formula does not apply and

we have to do something about it.

What we have also noticed is that if we were to have a load with a huge resistance, in the range of mega

ohms, the voltage divider works as intended.

That's because a load with a relatively high resistance, relative to the DC voltage source and the two

resistances requires only 2.5 micro amps of current.

This is literally nothing.

It's like this load would not even be connected to the circuit.

Now here's the deal. If we have a load than this current flowing out of the voltage divider is not zero

anymore.

It will be some other, you know, some other current value.

And all of the sudden R1 and R2 are no longer in series.

So what happens when

we have a loaded voltage divider? As I have explained

the load will be in the form of another resistor, and I'm going to call this resistor us RL.

So now, what do we have?

We now have R2 and RL in parallel.

The parallel equivalent of them is in series with our R1 because all of the current going through R1

must go through either R2 or RL and R2 and RL can be replaced by a parallel equivalent resistance.

So now what does our voltage divider equation looks like?

Well, instead of R2 over R1 plus R2 now, the output voltage equals to R2 in parallel with RL over

R1 plus R2 in parallel with RL.

All of this multiplied by the input voltage.

So this is now the new voltage divider equation.

And of course, we know that the parallel equivalent resistance is 1 over R equivalent equal to

one or two plus one over RL, from which results the R equivalent, is the product over the sum of

both resistances.

So the lesson to be taken from this is the new equation is obviously different from the original one.

Right?

So you must look for if you think you may see a voltage divider, you must look for current being

drawn by the load.

If there is a significant amount of current flow through the load, the original voltage divider

equation does not apply anymore.

If you recall, we have seen that with a 1M ohm load, the original voltage equation was valid.

Let us do some calculations, so R2 is in parallel with RL

So the equivalent resistance of R2 in parallel with RL is now 99.99 ohms.

You can do the calculations on your own and see that the equivalent resistance of this parallel connection

is indeed 99.99 ohms.

-

So do you notice how close the equivalent resistance is compared to the original value of R2?

It's almost the same.

The equivalent resistance is almost the same as the value of R2, which explains why the original voltage

divider equation works.

And now let's do the same calculation with a lower load, let's say 150 ohms. This time, 100 Ohm

is in parallel with 150 ohms and the equivalent resistance would be 60 ohms.

So even though you have placed a 100-ohm resistance here, in reality, from the circuit point of view,

it behaves like a 60-ohm resistor and you could use the original voltage divider equation.

But R2 in this equation should be now 60 ohms instead of 100 ohm, and the output voltage would

be around 1.9V.

Now, the thing is, in practice, once you do a number of voltage dividers, you will see few popular

values for the voltage divider resistors.

You see, many people just pick one of them and don't bother too much with calculations, unless there

is a problem with the choice.

For example, for smaller loads, you can pick resistors in the 100k ohm range, while for bigger

loads you can use 10 ohm or even 1k ohm resistors, if you have enough current to spare.

Now I could go on and on me trying to explain how to choose the values of R1 and R2, but I believe

that it would be a waste of time.

The only time you would actually use this voltage divider circuit is if the load you are connecting

does not demand any current meaning that it has a relatively high resistance.

We could see that the moment you connect a load with a relative low resistance, which actually demands

some serious current from the voltage divider, the output voltage of the divider drops and the circuit

will not work anymore.

One solution from the many is to add a unit to gain buffer between the voltage divider and the load.

In general, an op amp has a very high input resistance.

This circuit will allow you to supply a rather high current at least several mA, even with a

small current through the divider.

It may be tempting, especially in battery power systems, where every mA counts to choose a value

like 1M ohm for the resistors.

Don't worry if you don't understand this just yet.

We will build this circuit later on.

I just wanted to show you that there are solutions to almost every problem in electronics.

We will also talk about voltage regulator circuits. A voltage regulator is a circuit that creates and

maintains a fixed output voltage irrespective of the load resistance.

So there are many other circuits that work much better than a simple voltage divider circuit, and we

will talk about all of them as we progress with the courses.