Welcome, welcome, welcome.

In this course, I'm going to introduce you to the 'hello world' of electronics. If 'hello world' in programming

is the first program that you write to display a message to the terminal

'Hello world' in electronics is like building a circuit to light up an LED.

So what is an LED?

You see, LEDs are all around us, in our phones, our cars and even our homes.

Any time something electronic lights up, there's a good chance that an LED is behind it.

They come in huge variety of sizes, shapes and colors

But no matter how they look, how they work under the hood is all the same.

In short, LEDs are like tiny light bulbs.

However, LEDs require a lot less power to light up

by comparison. They're also more energy-efficient, so they don't tend to get hot like conventional

light bulbs do unless you are really pumping some serious power into them.

This makes them ideal for mobile devices and other low power applications, but don't count them out of

the high power game though.

High-intensity LEDs have found their way into accent lighting, spotlights, and even automotive

headlights.

Are you getting the craving yet ?

The craving to put LEDs on everything ?

Good.

Stick with me and I will show you how. In the real world, a typical LED will look like this.

In this particular case, I'm showing you a red light LED, but there are other colors of LED out there.

Commonly available colors are red, green, blue, yellow, amber and white.

But for now, let's just stiick with our red light LED because it is the most common one.

The circuit symbol for an LED looks like this. A triangle with some arrows pointing out.

LEDs are a particular type of diode that convert electrical energy into light.

In fact LEDs stands for light-emitting diode, and this is reflected in the similarity between the diode

and LED schematic symbol.

If you understand how LEDs work, you will understand how diodes work as well, because both behave

similarly.

So let's put diodes apart, and let's just focus on LEDs. The first thing that you have to understand

about LEDs or diodes, in general, is that they have polarities.

In electronics, polarity indicates whether a circuit component is symmetric or not.

LEDs being diodes will only allow current to flow in one direction.

And when there is no current flow

there is no light.

Luckily, this also means that you can't break an LED by plugging it in backward.

Rather, it just won't work.

The positive side of the LED is called the anode and is marked by having a longer lead or leg.

The other, negative side of the LED is called the cathode, and as a rule of thumb, current flows from

the anode to the cathode and never in the opposite direction.

A reversed LED can keep an entire circuit from operating properly by blocking current flow.

So don't freak out if adding an LED breaks your circuit.

Try flipping it around! Here in the simulator

I want to show you something.

We have a 12V DC power source, a 1k ohm resistor and an LED in series with it.

If you want to add an LED to your circuit, you can find it under outputs and labels.

Notice that when I hover over the LED, the circuit symbol shows up as a normal diode.

But when I leave the cursor, the LED shows up as a red light bulb.

How awesome is that!

Now, as I have mentioned, an LED has two terminals

The positive side is called the anode and the negative one is called the cathode.

Now what was our rule of thumb?

The current always flows from the anode to the cathode and never in the opposite direction.

If I were to flip the LED

Notice that the LED is turned off and no current is flowing in the circuit.

Essentially the LED blocks all the current flow.

Remember, the current through an LED can only flow from the anode to the cathode, which would explain

why it's important for an LED to be connected in the correct direction.

LEDs or diodes certainly aren't the only polarized component.

There are tons of parts out there that won't work if connected incorrectly.

Fortunately, resistors are not polarized and you can connect them however you wish.

All right.

So we know that LEDs are polarized and they conduct current in only one direction.

What else do we want to know about them?

We want to know how they work.

You see, an LED behaves very differently from a resistor in a circuit.

Resistors behave linearly, according to Ohms Law, which says that voltage is equal to current times resistance.

For example, increase the voltage across a resistor

the current will increase proportionately as long as the resistor's value stays the same.

Simple enough, unfortunately, LEDs do not behave this way.

They behave like a diode with a characteristic current-voltage curve that is different than a resistor.

Don't be afraid, it's not that hard to understand.

So every LED has what's called the characteristic or recommended forward voltage, which is usually between

1.5V and 4V.

This forward voltage is noted as Vf and it's nothing else but the voltage that is dropped across

the LED.

Now this graph tells you everything about how an LED works

so take some time to examine it in more detail.

As I have mentioned in the previous courses, once current is flowing through a component

there's going to be a voltage drop across it.

For resistors, this voltage drop depends on the current flowing through it.

Right ?

The more current flows through a resistor, the higher the voltage drop across it.

And this is not the case for LEDs.

The voltage drop

in other words, the forward voltage drop across an LED is always specified

in its datasheet.

And for those who don't know, each component in electronics has a data sheet that is just a document

providing the specifications and information related to a particular component.

So as we can see from the current-voltage characteristic if the voltage drop across the diode is lower than

the forward voltage drop specified in its data sheet

the current through the LED is very small.

It's almost insignificant, however, once the voltage drop across the LED reaches the forward voltage

the LED opens up and will let current flow through it.

Once the forward voltage drop across the LED has been met

the LED turns on and the current will escape to the sky.

and all of the sudden a huge amount of current will flow through the LED.

But we can't let the current flow through the LED to escape to the sky.

We have to control the amount of current so that we don't burn the LED out, and this is why you will

always see a resistor in series with the LED.

The series resistor will limit the amount of current flow through the LED, which will prevent it from

burning out or catching fire.

Although LEDs do not burn as resistors do, they will simply pop and won't work anymore.

In the next course, we will pick a real LED

we will then look into its datasheet and we will try to build our first 'Hello World' circuit.

I will see you next course.