To build our first 'Hello Word' circuit, I have chosen to work with the LED called TLUR6400.

Yes, I agree.

Electrical components have horrible names.

I say.

Let's start by opening up its data sheet.

If you are wondering how or where to find it, just Google up the name of the component, followed by

datasheet.

Usually, these documents are in PDF format.

So I clicked on the first link and this is where it brought me.

The link to the same document can be found here.

All right.

So why are we here?

Ohh right.

The find the forward voltage drop.

If we scroll down a little bit, we will see somewhere

the forward voltage drop.

Here it is.

It says that the forward voltage when 20mA of current is flowing through it

is typically 2V

and the maximum is 3V.

You see, no component is made to perfection.

Instead of giving a fixed value, they give us a range which in this particular case is between two

and three volts.

The voltage drop across the LED will be somewhere around 2V or maximum 3V as long as

there's enough current running through the LED.

Which brings us to the next question.

What is the recommended or maximum amount of current that should flow through the LED without damaging it?

In the absolute maximum rating table,

the recommended current flow is specified in the form of DC forward current.

The DC forward current specifies how much current should flow through the LED during its operation.

And it says that 20mA of current is maximum.

So no more than 20mA should flow through it.

Otherwise, you risk damaging the component.

Of course, this doesn't mean that if, let's say 21mA is flowing through it, you

are screwed.

But you should keep this in mind and design your circuit so that the current flow won't exceed 20mA.

All right, guys.

So we have seen that there is a specification for LEDs called the forward voltage, and you must reach

this forward voltage to turn on the LED.

But as you exceed this voltage, the LED's intrinsic resistance quickly drops off.

Therefore, the LED will begin to draw a bunch of current and in some cases burn up.

So a resistor is used in series with the LED to keep the current at a specific level called the forward current.

-

If you recall, the forward voltage mentioned was between was around 2V, and the current through

the LED should not exceed 20mA.

The question is what should be the voltage of our voltage source and what should be the value of our current

limiting resistor?

Well, as a rule of thumb, the voltage source should always be higher than the forward voltage drop

specified in the datasheet of your particular LED.

I mean, this makes sense, right?

If your voltage source is lower than the forward voltage drop specified

How on earth are you going to drop that amount of voltage across the LED?

You can't.

So as long as the voltage source is higher than the forward voltage drop specified, it's all good.

Now, let's assume that we are working with a 9V battery.

All right.

9V batteries are quite popular in electronics anyway.

The only thing left for us to calculate is the value of the resistor, and the value of the resistor

will be calculated based on how much current the LED can handle.

And we know that 20mA is the maximum amount of current that can flow through to LED.

So the value of the resistor will be calculated accordingly.

So how do we calculate the resistance?

Well, using Ohm's Law.

But this time we use the resistance equation, so resistance is equal to the voltage drop across the

resistor divided by the current flowing through it.

Since the resistor and the LED are connected in series, the same amount of current will flow through

both of them.

So let's assume that we want 20mA of current to flow in the circuit.

In this case, the equation becomes R is equal to voltage drop, divided by 20mA

And the question is what's the voltage drop across the resistor?

Well, if you recall, the entire voltage coming from a voltage source has to be dropped on something

anything until it reaches ground.

Otherwise, a short circuit will happen.

Since we have two components in a series connection

there are going to be two voltage drops. One across the resistor and one across the LED.

The sum of the two voltage drops must be equal to the voltage source.

And the great thing about LEDs and diodes, in general, is that you will always know what voltage will

be dropped across them.

The forward voltage drop specifies how much voltage will be dropped across the LED during its operation.

And we know it will be somewhere around 2V. If let's say, 2V is dropped across the LED

OK?

How much voltage will be dropped across the resistor?

The remaining voltage.

Right?

9V - 2V

So 7V will be dropped across it.

So 7V divided by 20mA gives us a resistance of 350 ohms.

The actual equation that you could use for calculating the value of the current limiting resistor in

an LED circuit is this one. The input voltage of the circuit minus the forward voltage of the LED,

all divided by current, gives you the resistance. Here in the simulator

I have already built the circuit and if you double click on the LED and click Create New Simple Mode.

You can change the forward voltage drop of the LED to any value you want.

For me, it's already set to 2V. Using a 350-ohm resistor in series that we have just calculated the

current flowing through the LED

is going to be

21mA. Plus minus some milliamps don't matter at all.

So remember when you are dealing with an LED, just Google up its data sheet in which you will find

how much voltage will be approximately dropped across it during its normal operation and the recommended

current flowing through it.

When you have these two values, and you know your voltage source

Plug the values into this equation and you are ready to go.