Hello and welcome to a new chapter here, we will study some common searches that you will find out

there based on, right.

We are still studying about UPS and the best way to understand how they work is to build real life circuits,

fit the same that we are going to look at is called peak detectors circuit.

As the name implies, a peak detector outputs.

Are these high voltage equal to the peak value of the applied AC signal.

So why is a peak detector useful?

Because it can determine the peak or in other words, the maximum value of an input signal.

This circuit has the capability to store the peak value of the input AC voltage for infinite amount

of time.

Until it comes to that condition, the peak detector circuit utilizes its property of following the

highest value of an input signal and storing it.

So why would you use a ping detector circuit if you can just measure the voltage of an AC signal before

voltmeter, you might ask.

First of all, a multimeter measures the Oremus value of the voltage.

And then if you want to get to the peak of the signal, you have to multiply this value by a square

root of two to get a theoretical peak value.

But this is only true if the signal you are measuring is a nice, clean sine wave signal.

Well, usually these big detectors are used to measure the peak of nonoxynol through the waveforms and

tradition.

AC meters just cannot measure the peak of such signals.

The peak detector circuit, as you can see, consists of diode and capacitor along with an op ed.

The circuit, as you can see it, does not require any complex component in order to determine the peak

of the input waveform.

The working principle of the circuit is quite easy.

The capacitor here is used to actually store the peak of the input waveform as the time passes.

If the circuit detects a higher peak, the new peak value is stored in the capacitor until it is discharged

and soon we will see how to discharge this capacitor.

But for the time being, I didn't include it in the circuit to be easier to understand how the circuit

works.

So the capacitor will always retain the highest peak of the input voltage.

But how does it do that?

Well, as you can see, the capacitor in the circuit is charged through the diode.

Do you remember when we talked about halfway precision rectifiers circuits?

Well, just like there, the negative feedback of the ApoB is connected after the diode.

What does this mean?

It means that the voltage drop across the diode is ignored.

We know that up amps tries to keep both inputs at the same voltage.

This means that the OP in this case has to output a voltage that is with one diode drop higher than

the input voltage, so that after the diode, which is the output of the circuit, the voltage on the

inverting pin will be the same as the voltage on the non-working been great.

Now what happens when the capacitor is connected back to the circuit?

Well, at the beginning, when the capacitor is not charged, then we apply a signal on the input,

the OP amp will output the same voltage, right?

Its output signal will charge up the capacitor and will charge it to avoid it.

That is equal to the peak value of the input and it will likely see to that voltage until the input

voltage is higher than the current peak retained by the capacitor.

So if you have a very big input signal that looks like this, and let's say the first big value is ten

watts, then the capacitor will be charged up to 10 watts.

What happens after that?

The input signal starts to decrease.

During this time, the voltage across the capacitor is towards since the capacity is connected to the

inverting pin, the voltage on the inverting bill will be as well.

Tannenwald referenced to ground.

As long as the voltage on the inverting pin is higher, the AMP outputs a negative voltage, which is

equal to the voltage that the upper be supplied with.

So if the OP is powered V four plus minus 15, what's the appropriate output?

Minus 15 watts?

Because the voltage on the inverting pin is higher than the voltage on the Narnian voting pin.

And this is a tricky part here.

I know, because even though it has a negative feedback, the OP amp works almost like a comparator.

We know that op amp tries to keep both inputs at the same wattage.

Right.

And since the voltage on the non-reporting pin is lower than the voltage on the inverting pin, and

since the output is connected back to the inverted pin, the op ed tries to output a negative voltage

so that it reduces the voltage on the inverting pin until it's equal to the voltage on the non inverting

pin.

So the op ed starts to output minus one word.

It checks.

If both inputs are equal rights, not then outputs minus two words, then minus three.

Still, the inputs are not equal and it goes like this until bombs into minus 15 watts, it cannot go

lower than minus 15 watts if the OP is power minus 15 watts.

Right.

So even though the OP has the intention to keep above input of the same voltage, it just can't.

Because of this diode, the diet is reverse biased, meaning that there's no current flowing in this

path.

And basically the diode blocks any current to flow into the AMP, which would be necessary if the output

voltage is negative and without this negative voltage, that the up and outputs would discharge the

capacitor right away.

Basically, without this diode, even if the capacitor is connected, the output voltage would simply

follow the input voltage.

So it would work as the world is far lower.

So again, this diode prevents the capacitor to discharge.

Now, when the next becomes, which is higher than the previous peak, the voltage on the non inverting

pin will be higher than the voltage on the emerging pin, which is basically the voltage across the

capacitor.

And because it's higher, the AMP will output a positive voltage that is higher than the current voltage

that the capacitor has retained.

And as a result, the capacitor is charged up to the new value.

So let's try to see how this works in the simulator.

All right.

So this circuit outputs the big voltage of the input in order to create a similar to the waveform.

There are two similar generators plays in series which will all put a signal that looks like this.

The output is shown here and that is that when I hit reset, the capacitor always and always holds the

current peak value of the input voltage and it never drops.

And the moment the input voltage is higher than the current peak, the capacitor gets updated with the

new voltage.

So if the input voltage is larger, the UPB output goes positive onto the capacitor is charged up to

the new peak value.

If the input voltage is smaller, the diode keeps the capacitor from being discharged.

Now, there are two problems with this earthquake.

First, we cannot manually discharge the capacitor, and second, the moment we connect a load to the

circuit.

The voltage that the capacitor holds will drop instantly, so we have to somehow process these big voltage,

right.

And we can perhaps connect this output to an ADC converter so that by using a microcontroller and the

display, we can display the peak value of the input voltage.

But what if the input of the ADC does not have a very high input impedance?

What if the ADC will draw some amount of current from the circuit which will in turn discharge our capacitor?

Well, we don't want that right.

And that's why we should connect Abolfathi liquid to the output of the circuit.

All right.

So these buffer circuit is nothing else but a voltage follower.

Its advantage is that it has a very high input impedance, meaning that the input of the append will

not draw any current.

And the OP has a low output impedance, meaning that it can drive any loads like the ADC that we talked

about without dropping the input voltage.

So now we can connect safely our ADC to the zero with one problem solved.

The next problem is that we need somehow to these charges capacitor.

We cannot leave this capacitor charged up forever.

Right?

There are many solutions for this.

You can either these charges capacitor before transistor, which is controlled by a microcontroller

or easier.

You can just connect a switch button and a resistor in parallel with the capacitor.

When you hit the switch button, the capacitor will discharge because of this loop and thus you can

see the capacity's discharging quite slow.

So we should decrease the value of the register to, let's say, 20 OMS.

And now when you briefly hit the switch, the capacitor gets discharged right away.