We usually think of an amplifier as something that receives an input voltage and produces a higher amplitude

opportunities.

However, an important variation on these basic amplification scheme involves conversion from current

to voltage.

So how can we convert current wattage?

And what does this mean?

Well, in this course, we will find it out.

The current to wattage amplifier can be described as having again, because the output amplitude is

equal to the input amplitude multiplied by a number chosen by the designer, but it's a different type

of game because the output signal and in particular have different units and therefore cannot be directly

compared with.

I'm sorry if I'm confusing you.

Trust me, it's very easy.

Why am I saying this?

Because a current worth gentrifier reminds us that the circuit is performing the same basic function

as a resistor.

We know from Ohm's Law that voltage is equal to current times resistance and in fact an ordinary resistor

can be used as a carrot to wordage converter.

If you correcto resistor to a current source, the resistor will generate a voltage that is equal to

the current multiplied by the gain where the gillion here is nothing else but the resistance of the

transistor.

What is occurring in the first place where we already talked about this?

But briefly, Corales also circuit.

It maintains a constant current flow, regardless of the voltage developed across its terminals.

As this voltage is determined by the circuit elements.

That is an ideal constant source continually provides a specified amount of current, regardless of

the impedance that it is driving.

And such an ideal source could easily supply an infinite amount of energy.

So just as a voltage source may be created, for example, US five or ten volts, etc., a coral source

will also have a current rating, for example, a three emperors or a 15 members, etc..

Now IdeaCast and current sources are represented in a similar manner to what is sources.

But this time the current source symbol is that of a circle with an arrow inside to indicate the direction

of flow of the current.

The direction of the current will correspond to the polarity of the corresponding voltage flowing out

from the positive terminal.

And the letter I is used to indicate that this element is nothing else but our current source.

Well, I think the best way to explain the current source is to show you what it does here in the simulator.

So it is Elkwood.

As you can see, we have a resource and a simple resistive load that is a very basic silkies.

Right.

Current flows out of the current source.

It goes through the load and it goes back since it's a closed loop circuit.

We know that the resistor in general is used to set or limit the current flow in the circuit.

Right.

And here in the circuit, no matter what the resistance of the load is.

It will not effect the current flowing in this year.

So if this is a radical resource and it is ideal because it the simulator is considered as ideal, the

current in a circuit will always be Tamilians, regardless of the resistance of the load.

So if the current source is set to output a current of millions, then no matter how much the resistance

is, there will be always Tamilians flowing in the circuit.

So how can a coral source maintain a constant coral, regardless of the load that it's driving?

Very easy in order to maintain a constant current in the circuit, the current source, which is a circuit

after all.

But here in the simulator, you can just use a coral source out of the box.

The coral source will play with the output voltage.

So it will increase or decrease depending on the load resistance that is driving in order to maintain

a constant current.

All right.

I'm sorry if I spend too much explaining this.

I just wanted to make it clear again, because we will use coral sauce in a minute.

Oh, I almost forgot to show you that a simple resistor can be used towards cold water.

So if we set the value of the resistor to, let's say, one kilo, the current flowing through this

resistor in millions will be converted to voltage.

So if Ted Williams is flowing through the register that the output voltage will be 10 volts if the current

flowing through the resistor is, let's say, 20 Myriam's.

The output voltage will be 20 words, so I hope you get the point.

Now, let's go back to our current to watch commander.

So this conveys the most basic form of the open current toward the mother at this point, you might

be wondering why we need an option for clarity to what is conversion if the task can be accomplished

by a single register.

First, we have to remember two important techniques that we use to simplify the analyses of negative

feedback about sacred rule.

Number one, no current flows into the options inputs and rule number two, the voltage at the nanny

voting input is equal to the voltage.

Other averting a potential now sees no current enters the inverting input terminal.

All of the input current flows through the feedback resistor RF on its way to the output node.

Next, the non-emergency terminal is connected to ground, as you can see, and therefore we can assume

that the inverting input terminal is also at the ground.

Next sees one side of the feedback resistor is a virtual ground and the other side is connected to the

output terminal.

All we need is a home floor to tell us that the magnitude of the output voltage is equal to the input

current times, the feedback resistance.

So the input to output relationship of the opposite is expressed as follows.

The output voltage is equal to minus the input current times, the resistance of the feedback resistor

where the negative side in this equation is an important detail.

If current is flowing into the circuit, the voltage across the feedback register will have polarity

as shown here.

So the right hand terminal of the register is at a lower potential than the left hand terminal and sees

the left hand terminal is a neutral ground.

The output voltage will be negative.

Great only to see this in action.

All right, so in this circuitous, you can see we have a current source, which, again, is a device

that provides whatever voltage is required to keep a constant amount of current flowing in the circuit.

If the current source sets the current due to millions, then the 08 will convert these two mediums

into two worlds, well, minus two what in this case.

But if we change the polarity of the current source.

Notice that the output voltage is positive dubois', so how do we calculate the output voltage?

Well, using this formula, the output voltage is simply equal to minus the feed, the resistance times,

the input current.

Since we know both the input current and the feedback resistance, we get the output voltage very easily.

We know that the ratio of output and input of a circuit is called US gain.

Right.

And in this case, the gain of the current to voltage converter is not else but the feedback resistance.

All right.

Now you might ask, where would we use the current voltage converter?

Well, these circuits can be found in sensors that have a current response that is more linear than

the voltage response.

This is the case before the diodes, for example, where it is not uncommon for the current response

to have a better than one percent non-linearity over a wide range of light input.

But again, since the current response of the photo diode is more linear than the voltage response,

the current that the photo diode generates is converted to a blockage which gets processed by another

DataQuick.