Hello, guys, and welcome back.

In this course, we learn about how to design a trigger using an app amp.

If you remember back, we already talked about Trigger, right?

But that wall was built using transistors if you didn't like the circuit for some reason.

Well, I have good news.

The trigger can be built using a single option for some external resistors around.

So let's revise briefly what Ashmead triggers and then we can jump into the GUSTAAF search trigger is

a form of comparator circuit that has hysteresis or different inputs switching levels to change the

output between the two states.

What is hysteresis?

That hysteresis occurs in many instances to our.

But in the case of the trigger, hysteresis means that a circuit triggers at different voltages to switch

the output from one state to the other.

To explain this in more detail data.

Example where the input signal is, let's say the five words this voltage rises and passes the upper

threshold voltage, which is at six words.

The output voltage will switch from high to low.

And here comes the magic we first met Trigger.

In order to switch the output back, the input signal must fall not below the upper threshold voltage,

but below the lower threshold voltage, which is at four walls in this case.

And in this way there is a two volts difference between the switching in either direction.

And this provides some significant noise immunity.

The problem of not using hysteresis with your computer is that if the input signal rises slowly, that

noise on the waveform will cause multiple switches of state of the output of the computer.

So by using hysteresis, this issue is overcome unless the noise levels are very high and the trigger

circuit is ideal for many applications in overcoming this issue.

So again, by using the hysteresis, the effect of noise at the input which Michael Severals, which

is that the output as the input voltage nears, the switching voltage is significantly reduced.

And this issue of multiple switches of the output due to noise can give rise to many issues.

And electronic circuit design engineers has spent many hours debugging circuits with this type of issue

so they can be difficult to track down sometimes.

Unfortunately, a straight computer can be converted into a trigger by the addition of a single electronic

component in most cases.

So a standard computer circuit can normally be converted into a trigger by introducing what is called

a positive feedback and by adding some resistors around.

I think this is the first time we use positive feedback, right?

Like the negative feedback here, the output terminal is connected to the non-convertible and in this

scenario, the effect of the positive feedback or better side effect of the new resistor, which is

R three, is to give the circuit different switching thresholds dependent upon the output state of the

computer or operation amplifier.

So we know that ASMI Trigger has two thresholds.

Right.

But how does this all three different switching thresholds that let's think about it.

So without input voltage being applied to the circuit, there's already a voltage set at the non-convertible

by the voltage divider formed by R-1 and or to write.

Now, of course, we don't care about the output voltage yet, so are one or two sets of voltage on

the non inverting pin, which we call a threshold.

So our one is connected to a positive power supply and is what it is used to power this voltage divider.

We don't care about the values of the resistances right now.

We just use a pure theoretical approach in analyzing this circuit.

All right, so what did I say?

All right.

This voltage set by our one in our two will be called US Threshold.

Now, let's analyze the scenario when the voltage on the non-convertible pin is higher than the voltage

on the inverting beam.

If this is true, then the output of the competitor is high, right?

If the output voltage is high, well, this voltage is fed back to the non-working input of the operation

amplifier.

And as a result, the switching threshold becomes higher by how much?

Well, we will see that later.

Now, what happens when the voltage on the inverting pin is higher than the voltage on the inverting

pin?

Well, in this case, the output is switched in the opposite sense.

So it becomes negative.

And as a result, the switching threshold is lowered.

And this gives the circuit what is termed as hysteresis.

All right.

I hope you got the point.

Now let's go to our simulator.

So here we are now without the input signal being applied and let's take this positive feedback out

a little bit.

Notice that the voltage on the non inverting pin is five fibroids.

Why?

Because both resistors are equal in value.

So the voltage will be half of the world's power supply, right.

Now, the voltage on the non-convertible pin is higher than the voltage on the inverting pin, so the

output is high.

Let's see, it's 15 watt because the upper end is powered with plus minus 15 words.

When I add this 100 km back, what happens when the threshold voltage that was set at five would is

rise at 5.5 OIDs?

So by default, without input voltage, this is set at four I mean, five point firewalls.

Great.

Now, in order for the output voltage to switch in the opposite sense, the voltage on the inverting

pin has to be higher.

So let's make this pin higher.

Let's set the voltage at eight.

Edwards.

Now, the opera's output is at minus 15 words, which sets the new threshold voltage to four words.

So what does this mean?

Well, this means that the two thresholds are set at five point five words and four words for the output

voltage to switch back to positive the input voltage.

Instead of going lower than the 5.5 words, it has to go lower than four.

And now, in order for the output to switch back to negative, the input voltage has to be higher than

the new threshold voltage, which is five point five words.

Now, let's see a more realistic approach of using Ashmead Trigger.

All right.

So the input voltage is a 40 hertz sine wave, which is very sensitive to external noises.

And as a result, the one kilohertz signal is added in series in order to simulate a very noisy AC signal.

Now, of course, there's really no point in adding a pure sine wave with the input.

Imagine this time it was a signal coming from a sensor whose output voltage is changing depending on

the output temperature, for example.

So what we want to achieve is to turn on this fan, depending on the output temperature, if it's too

hot inside the room, the Fed will turn on and if the temperature drops below a certain temperature,

the fan will turn off.

Now, the temperature in a room isn't something that changes very fast, right?

It might go up to 23 degrees Celsius, then back to twenty two point five, then up to 24.

They're back.

So it's not something that changes gradually in a linear fashion.

And certainly it's not changing fast.

Now, the voltage provided by the sensor might not be noise itself, but since the temperature in a

room changes randomly because probably someone just opened the window.

Right, or something like that, the output voltage might seem like noisy.

And so these sensors output is connected to our inverting terminal.

If we were to use only one threshold, then when the output voltage of the sensor approaches the threshold

voltage, it might trigger the fan multiple times because in a moment is higher, the next moment is

lower, then again, higher, you get the point.

So in order to avoid doing unnecessarily triggering a Schmitz's there, you know.

Oh, my God, if I die on my legs and when they lay me down to rest.