Hello.

In this course, we are going to talk about this, but this is good to know, especially if you are

dealing with audio amplifiers.

And now my question is how do you compare amplitudes of two signals?

You could say, for instance, that Signal A is twice as large as Signal B, and that's fine and useful

for many purposes.

But because we often deal with ratios as large as million, it is better to use a logarithmic measure.

And for this, we present the decibel.

By definition, the ratio of two signals in decibels is 10 times log base 10 of B2 or B1, where P1

and P2 represents the power in the two signals.

But because in electronics, we often derive signal amplitudes.

We express the ratio of two signals by using this equation.

So in this case, the decibel is equal to 20 times log based then of a two over A1, where A1 and A2

are the two signal amplitudes.

So, for instance, one signal of twice the amplitude of another is plus six decibel relative to it.

Since log base 10 of two is equal to 0.3.

If A2 is twice as large as A1, that means the ratio between these two signals will be two.

And if you multiply 20 with zero point three, we will get six decibels.

Now, let's take another example, if a signal is ten times as large as another signal, then it means

that the corresponding signal is with 20 decibels higher than the other one.

And if a signal is one half as large, this means that it's negative 20 decibels lower than the other

signal.

I advise you to do some calculations and find out how we reach that 20 and minus 20 decibels.

OK.

And now let's take a more practical example, OK?

For instance, let's say we have a microphone that is giving out one milli vault when very speaking

to it.

We plug this microphone into a preamp, which is a microphone input on the camera, our mixer that has

a gain of 60 decibel from the table.

We can see the 60 decibel is equal to a linear ratio of 1000 and therefore a preemptive if a gain of

60 decibels is going to elevate our one million watt microphone level signal by a factor of 1000, giving

us a level of 1000 milliwatts or what would.

So basically, when we are dealing with audio amplifiers, the output voltage is always greater than

the input voltage, which means that there must be a gain between and these gain can be expressed in

decibel.

In our example, you can say that the output voltage is greater with one thousand than the input wattage,

but sometimes is more practical, and it's easier to just say that our amplifier has a gain of 60 decibel.

Speaking of audio amplifiers, how loud is actually a decibel?

If you happen to be in a completely empty room void of all sound, that would be zero decibels.

And the following chart provides some general noise levels to give you an idea of what a different decibels

sound like.

Thanks for watching.

See you in the next course.