In electronics, amplifier is the most commonly used circuit device with huge application possibilities.

It's very important for you to know that in audio related electronics, pre-amplifier and power amplifiers

are two different types of amplifier systems, which are used for sound amplification related purposes.

But other than these application specific purpose, there are huge differences in various types of amplifiers,

mainly in power amplifiers.

So here we will explore different classes of amplifiers along with their advantages and disadvantages.

Before we discuss about the different types of power amplifiers, let's understand that the difference

between a pre-amplifier and the power amplifier.

I already mentioned that a professional audio amplifier device can have several stages between the input

signal and the speaker.

It can go through a lot of processing OK, and there can be more than two stages of this image represents.

But fundamentally, all audio amplifiers have these two stages, and any other stage is just secondary.

Now, let's imagine that this diagram represents the basic internal architecture of a guitar amplifier.

The pre-amplifier contains the circuitry that is primarily responsible for shaping the guitar sound

and delivering it to the power amplifier in an optimal form.

Almost all of the controllers on the front panel of the guitar amplifier live, for example, gain bass,

mid treble volume, etc. are controlling the circuitry within the pre-amplifier, so the power amplifier

receives the signal from the pre-amplifier.

It then outputs a much larger version of the signal, with voltage high enough to drive a speaker.

The speaker is nothing else but a transducer system that turns electrical energy from the power amplifier

into audio.

But sound no guitar amplifiers built with the pre-amplifier, power amplifier and speaker or in the

same wooden box are called combo amplifiers.

Combo amplifiers are the most popular style of a guitar amplifier due to their convenience and portability.

Now, let's take another example.

Imagine this is the internal architecture of a basic audio amplifier device.

So this time it's not a guitar amplifier, but it's an amplifier with signals provided by a microphone.

In this case, the pre-amplifier boasts a weaker signal to low level, while the amplifier boosts level

a signal so that it can be sent to a speaker's.

For example, a microphone outputs a very big signal that needs to be boosted to the same level as other

signals by a pre-amplifier before it can be processed by other device, like a mixer, receiver or amplifier.

Once it is on the same level, it can be processed with other input signals and send through the power

amplifier to a set of speakers.

Technically speaking, the pre-amplifier provides significant voltage gain and small current gain,

which makes a pre-amplifier good for recording applications a power every fire must follow in order

for current to be amplified enough to power the loudspeaker.

Now you are probably wondering why you need two separate devices for this.

Can't you just use an integrated unit that includes both pre-amplifier and power amplifier?

Yes, you can.

But the reason the pre-amplifier is generally kept separated is to keep it away from the noise generated

by the large power transistors in a power amplifier.

A pre-amplifier uses little electricity like a power amplifier, uses a lot and generates a lot of heat

as well.

All right.

This was just a little explanations about the difference between the pre-amplifier of power amplifier.

But what we are going to talk more and what we are interested in is to understand the different types

of classes of a power amplifier.

If you ever glanced at the specifications sheet for an amplifier, one of the things you may have noticed

is the amplifiers class typically denoted by a letter or two.

The most common amplifier class is used in consumer home audio today are Class A, B, A, B, C and

D, but this is not shown here.

These glasses Ireland simply grading systems, but descriptions of the amplifiers topology like, for

example, how they function at the core level, while each amplifier class comes with its own set of

strengths and weaknesses.

Their job remains the same to amplify the waveform sent to it by a pre-amplifier without introducing

distortion, or at least as little as possible distortion.

So what does all of these classes mean?

Power amplifier circuits are classified as A, B, A, B and C for analog designs and Class D for switching

designs.

We are going to be discussing how amplifiers conduct through waveforms, so a basic diagram of a sign

may be shown here.

The image of a conduction angle derives from amplifying a sinusoidal signal.

So if the device is always on the conduction angle in 360 degree, if it is on the for only half of

the cycle, the angle is 180 degree.

So the angle of flow is closely related to the amplifier power efficiency.

Hmm.

OK.

But what exactly is this power efficiency?

The efficiency of a system in electronics and critical engineering is defined as useful power output

divided by the total electrical power consumed expressed in percent.

This is normally specified at full load the nominal input voltage.

So power efficiency in case of amplifiers is the amount of the actual power delivered to the speaker

divided by the electrical power drawn from the mains supply socket.

It can be defined using the following equation where efficiency is equal to the useful power output

divided by the total power input.

So if an amplifier with 50 percent efficiency is required to provide the 50 watt power to a speaker,

it will draw 100 watt from the wall.

The other 50 percent gets wasted as heat and other losses if an 80 percent efficient amplifier is used.

It will draw 56 watt to supply the same speaker, meaning that it has fewer losses and uses less power

from the agreed to provide the same output power.

In case you're wondering, which class of amplifier has the highest or the lowest efficiency?

Here's a graph for you where the vertical axis represents the efficiency of the particular amplifier,

and the horizontal axis shows the distortion introduced in the audio signal.

So Class eight amplifiers are the most linear design with the least amount of distortion, but at the

expense of very low efficiency.

On the other side of the spectrum, the efficiency of Class D amplifiers can be about 90 percent, but

at the expense of linearity and distortion.

All right.

All right.

But what exactly is this conduction angle that we were talking about?

Because as we mentioned before, the angle of flow is closely related to the amplifier power efficiency

in order to understand better these conduction angles.

Let's take the first class of power amplifiers, which is nothing else but Class A.