The classes that we are going to talk about in this course are not only used in power amplifiers, but

also used in audio amplifier circuits.

The first class that we are going to examine is Class A amplifier.

This amplifier circuit must look familiar to you because this configuration is nothing gas but a common

emitter circuit amplifier.

So we already talked about this circuit, and we have also seen how to design one.

So let's just point out some facts about this configuration.

OK, so class amplifier is a high gain amplifier.

The high linearity in case of class, the amplifier, the conduction angle is 360 degree.

As I explained in the previous course, a 360 degree conduction angle means that the amplifier device

remains active for the entire time and use complete input signal, as we can see in this image.

There is only one active element, which is nothing but a transistor.

So the bias of the transistor remains on or the time right.

Due to this never turn off feature, glass a amplifier provides better high frequency and feedback loops

stability.

Other than these advantages, class-A amplifier is easy to construct with a single device component

and minimum parts count.

Despite the advantages and highly merit, certainly it has some.

It has many limitations due to continuous conduction nature.

The class the amplifier introduce high power loss, also due to high linearity glass.

The amplifier provides distortion and noises.

The power supply and the bios construction need careful component selection to avoid unwanted noise

and to minimize the distortion.

So we mentioned that class.

The amplifier has high power loss, right?

This means that it emits heat and requires heat space, which sometimes is not available.

The efficiency is very poor in class, the amplifiers.

Theoretically, the efficiency varies between 25 to 30 percent.

If used with the usual configuration, the efficiency can be improved using inductively coupled configuration.

But the efficiency in such cases is not more than 40 or 50 percent dues.

It is only suitable for low signal or low power level amplification purposes.

Now that we highlighted some important facts about this class, let's move to Class B.

The Glasby amplifier is a bit different from the class, as you can see here.

It is created using two active devices which conduct half of the electoral cycle.

In other words, they conduct 180 degree of the cycle, so two devices provide a combined current drive

for the load.

If the circuit is used to provide audio signal amplification, then the load is nothing but a speaker,

right?

You might wonder how are these transistors biased?

Well, the bias is provided by the input signal, which means that the input signal has to be higher

than 0.6 volt, and also the input has to go negative in order to bias the PMP transistor.

Don't worry if you don't understand how this circuit works, because in the last course we try, we'll

try to simulate some of the classes so that you get a better understanding of how they work.

Knowledge is concentrated.

Concentrate on the theory a little bit, and don't bother yourself if you don't understand exactly how

the circuit works.

So this Glasby amplifier consists of two active devices.

We each get biased one by one.

During the positive and negative half cycle of the sinusoidal wave and duals, the signal gets pushed

or pulled to the amplify level from both positive and negative side.

And by combining the result, we get complete cycle across the output because these two active devices

are turned on one after another and because they conduct only half cycle, the efficiency gets improved

compared to the efficiency of a the amplifier, which is 25 to 30 percent.

The Class B amplifier can have an efficiency more than 60 percent.

Although the heat dissipation is minimized in this class, providing a low heatsink space.

But this class also have limitations.

A very profound limitation of this class is the crossover distortion.

A stew of devices provides each half of the sinusoidal waves, which are combined and joined across

the output.

There's a mismatch.

In other words, crossover in the region where two halves are combined.

This is because when one device complete the whole cycle, the other one needs to provide the same power,

or most of the same time when either one finished the job.

It is difficult to fix this error in Class B amplifier during the active device.

The other device remains completely inactive.

The error provides a distortion in the output signal, and due to this limitation, it is a major fail

for precision audio amplifier applications.

An alternate approach to overcome the crossover distortion is to use the AB Amplifier class, AB amplifier

uses intermediate conduction angle of both classes and be dues.

We can see the property of both Class AA Class B amplifier in this A-B class of amplifier topology.

Seamless Class B It has the same configuration with two active devices, which conducts during half

of the speakers individually, but each device bias differently so they do not get completely off during

the unusable moment or the crossover moment.

Each device does not leave the conduction immediately after completing the half of the sinusoidal waveform.

Instead, they conduct a small amount of input on other half cycle.

Using these biasing technique, the crossover mismatch during the dead zone is dramatically reduced.

But in this configuration, efficiency is reduced as the linearity of the devices is compromised.

The efficiency remains more than the efficiency of typical class amplifier, but it is less than the

Class B amplifier system.

Also, the diodes need to be carefully chosen with the exact same rating and need to be placed as close

as possible to the output device in some silky construction.

Designers tend to add the small value resistors to provide stable crests of the current across the device

to minimize the distortion across the output.

Apart from the Class A B and a B amplifier, there is another amplifier called the Class Seat.

It's a traditional amplifier which works differently than the other amplifier classes class.

The amplifier is tuned amplifier, which works in two different operation modes tuned or until the efficiency

of class.

The amplifier is much more than the A, B and AB, so a maximum 80 percent efficiency can be achieved

in radio frequency related operations.

The interesting thing here is that classical amplifier uses less than 180 degree conduction angle,

and during the untU mode, the classical amplifier unfortunately gives huge distortion across the output.

But in typical uses glass, the amplifier gives 60 to 70 percent efficiency.

The output amplitude is a nonlinear function of the input, so classy amplifiers are not used for linear

amplification.

They are generally used in the radio frequency applications, including circuits such as oscillators

that have a constant output amplitude and modulators where a high frequency signal is controlled by

a low frequency signal.

So it works fine with simple signal to the waveform, but may have unacceptable distortion with complex

waveform.

As the Class C amplifier, the transistor conducts for less than 180 degree of the input signal, on

the other hand, closed the amplifiers are way more popular and wider spread across the amplifiers.

It's one of my favorite in terms of functionality, and we will also try to simulate the circuit in

our simulator in the next course.

While Class A, B and A B are classified as analog designs class, the amplifiers are classified as

switching designs.

As you can see, the circuit is very different from the others.

This is just a semi block diagram of a class, the amplifier.

But the rest course we will see a full functional circuit.

So unless the amplifier is a switching amplifier, which uses polls with modulation, if you are wondering

what specific modulation is, I advise you to look that up on the internet because it's very important

technique used in its ranks.

Basically, positive modulation, or PVM, is a technique for getting analog results.

We for digital means, so digital control is used to create a square wave, which is a signal switched

between on and off, right?

As the name implies, the width of the square waves are modified in order to vary the amount of current

that flows to a device.

All right, so the conduction angle is not a factor in such case as the direct input signal is changed

with a variable plus width.

In this class, the amplifier system, the linear gain is not accepted as they work just like a typical

switch.

We each have only two operations on or off before processing the input signal.

The analog signal is converted into a poor stream by various modulation techniques, and then it is

applied to the amplifier system as the pulses duration is related with the analog signal.

It is again reconstructed using Lopez filter across the output.

Remember that class?

The amplifier is the highest power efficient amplifier class, so it has smaller heat dissipation,

so a small heatsink is needed.

The same with requires, whereas switching components like MOSFET, which has low on resistance, it

is widely used apology in digital audio appears or controlling the motors as well.

But we should keep in mind that it is not a digital converter.