All right.

So the first class of amplifier is the class amplifier.

This is nothing new.

It's the common limiter amplifier where they put signal is amplified or, in other words, is multiplied

with a value that is given roughly by the division between the collector and the meter reader.

So tanky divided by one key is done, so the output voltage is equal to it with voltage times.

Then this transistor is biased by these two resistors, which form of voltage divider so that the transmitter

operates in active region.

The reason why class the amplifier has very low efficiency is because it consumes power even when no

empathy is present.

So there's no conducting all the time 360 degree of input signal, so its efficiency is less than 30

percent.

When the transistor is used as a switch, it operates either in separation or cut off region where power

consumption is minimum.

He said the reason Koranda to transistor is maximum, but the voltage drop between the collector and

then meter is minimum, as you can see it, around twenty three volts.

So the growth of current isn't equal to better times.

Bass current anymore.

It only applies when the transistor works in active forward mode.

The emitter current is still equal to Colletto current plus bass current.

But as you mentioned, Colletto current is calculated differently.

All right.

But how well we already know by now, and it would be a shame, if not ohms law.

Ohms Law says the declarant is equal to voltage divided by resistance than the transistor works in HATERATION

Collector, and the meter is like two different entities.

So we can just like drag a line here and concentrate on this part of the circuit.

We can even take this out.

Why not and draw Grant here?

And the current will be the same.

Now, using Second Law of Kirchhoff, you see kick off will be one of your best friend in electronics,

along with Ohms Law.

The current flowing in the circuit will be equal to power supply voltage minus the forward voltage drop

of a typical LCD, which in this case is one point eight world or divided by this resistance.

All right.

This was on the point of the lecture anyway.

I just wanted to make it clear the point that I wanted to make is that even when the transistor is used

as a switch, the power consumption is minimum.

Probably is not that evident right now, but transistors have a huge application range, and sometimes

transistors are switched on and off thousands of thousands of times per second and switching to transistor

on and off.

Even though there is a switch, relatively high current fewer transistor will not burn out.

So is the reason the current two transistor is maximum, but the voltage drop between the collector

and limiter is minimum in cutoff mode.

The voltage drop across transistor is maximum, but the current is near zero, resulting in low power

consumption.

Since the power is equal to voltage times current.

All right, so one more thing when there is no input signal, the greater current sorry, the collector

voltage stay between the power supply voltage and ground saw maximum excursion of the signal can be

achieved.

Not possible can speak nicely up to 20 volts and down to zero votes around.

But how to put a question what exactly in the middle between power supply and ground?

Explaining how the circuit works goes already beyond the scope of this course.

But I prefer you to have a clear understanding of circuits that you are talking about.

So back to the question how to put a quarter current to be at 10 volts in this case?

Well, it's very easy.

The base voltage is biased to 1.6 volts, right?

This means that the emitter voltage is one day a drop less, so 1.6 was minus 0.6, while this is roughly

one mode.

Now that we know the emitter voltage, we can calculate the emitter current, which is one world divided

by one kilogram.

So the current is roughly one millionth.

We know that the Colletto current is equal to emit a current right.

So if the same current is flowing across the collector, we can calculate the voltage drop across these

collector resistor.

The wattage drop across the greater resistor is one millionth times then column, which is equal to

turmoils Walla.

So the remaining voltage after the connector is then because the other 10 is dropped across this resistor.

So this is how we calculate the collector voltage.

Now, let's move forward to Glasby.

But before we do that, I want you to understand something.

You have to understand that an NPR and translator cannot sink current, and the PMP translator cannot

source current by thinking sourcing.

We mean the direction of current flow between the input and output.

So a PMP transistor, the direction of the current that is flowing in the bays is opposite to the one

in an empty transistor.

Even though we didn't work with BNP transistors too much, I hope you know by now how a PMP transistor

works.

The reason we didn't focus on PMP transistor is because once you fully method Holland B and transistor

works, it would be very easy for you to understand how the PMP works.

So let's just recap a PMP transistor will turn on.

Then you have a small current running from emitter to base of the transistor where we say turn on.

We mean that the transistor will open up a channel between emitter and collector, and this channel

can carry a much larger current right.

So to get current running from emitter to base, you need a voltage difference of about zero point seven

worlds since the current goes from emitter to base.

The base needs to be zero point seven volts lower than the emitter.

So by setting the base voltage of a PB transistor to 0.7 watts lower than the emitter, you turn the

transistor on and allow for current to flow from emitter to collector.

Alright, so the point that I want to make here is that an NPR transistor cannot sync current, and

the puppet result cannot source current.

OK?

The result is that the single ended follower operating between split supplies can drive a ground retard

load only if a high gas on current is used.

What is the U.S. and current is the current that flows in the circuit where no input signal is present.

So the question I'm glad to correlate is one hundred sixty five millions and the Lord receives one hundred

thirty nine millions from this.

The problem here is that the question current must be at least as large as the maximum output current

during peaks of the wave form, resulting in high crescent power dissipation.

For example, this request shows a limited follower circuit that drives an eight ohm loudspeaker load,

the purpose of the circuit is to drive this loudspeaker knowing that these eight umlaut speaker is a

two watt speaker.

So if you don't want to birdies out, the loudspeaker shouldn't exceed a continuous power consumption

more than to what when you are researching the wattage of musical instrument or audio speaker drivers,

you will often find two values for the power handling ratings.

The first one is the Oremus, which comes from a root mean square and the second one is peak.

It's important to know what each of these refers to in order to find the correct speaker for your amplifier.

Mean power or root mean square power handling refers to how much continuous power the speaker can handle.

The peak power handling, on the other hand, is the value that refers to the maximum power level that

the speaker is capable of utilizing in short bursts.

The Oremus power handling of this loud speaker is to what?

So this power can continuously be dissipated without causing problems.

So why don't we check the average power consumed by this lord right now?

It's totally possible.

If you go to viewing scope now, go to properties, show power consumed.

And we are curious about the Oremus average value and not the peak value.

All right.

It's around 1.5 what so we are within the boundaries.

Let me give you some explanations of the circuit, because you might have some concerns if you have

any doubts, feel free to leave a question in the comment section because your question my head, not

only you, but the others too.

So the PM before the work you want is included to reduce dry requirements and to cancer couteux based

amidor voltage offset.

This means there's a firewall input signal out here gives approximately five words output.

The reason why we use emitter followers is to amplify the current in order to be able to drive the load.

So it presents a high input impedance and the low output impedance.

The other reason is to match impedance is.

But what I'm trying to say is that when they input signal is relatively low, they meet their work and

cause problem because there's always a base meter voltage drop and sometimes you cannot afford to drop

0.7 world from our input team anymore.

So using these BMB transistor, we basically cancel the base meter voltage drop.

Q one, of course, could be permitted for simplicity.

You might be curious why are these current thoughts here?

Well, there is nothing interesting here.

The current sourcing Cubans emit a load is used to ensure that there is sufficient base drive to Q2

at the top of the Cygnus wing.

So the output of this example circuit can speak to Murli Plus minus 15 volts in both direction, giving

the desired output power of Do you want everything is nice and beautiful until we take the input signal

out without the input signal output resistor dissipates 35 watts with no signal, which means nothing

to us.

But we need urgently to put this transistor on a heatsink and diameter resistor dissipates.

Another 190 words cure some participation.

Many times greater than the maximum out of power is characteristics of these kind of classic circuit

where the transistor is always in conduction.

This obviously leaves a lot to be desired in applications in which any significant amount of power is

involved.

So in part two of this course, we will see how to fix these high participation.

So stay with me and see you there.