All right.

So in the last course, we have talked about the sacred right, even though the circuit is amplifying

in voltage since it's an amateur follower, it's very good to use in cases where current amplification

is required.

The problem of the circuit, though, was that the active device, which is the transistor, is in conduction

all the time, especially when there is no input signal present.

This never turning off feature of this amplifier causes a reduction of power efficiency, which means

nothing else, but a lot of power is wasted for nothing.

You might wondering what's the point of talking about the circuit anyway when all you wanted is to discuss

about different types of amplifier?

Well, we see the KSB amplifier is similar to this one in the sense that both amplify only in current,

but it got a huge advantage that the efficiency has increased to more than 60 percent.

So this is a circuit that you call us Glasby amplifier, the circuit also goes by the name Push-Pull

amplifier.

And you also understand why people call this push and pull.

But I guess it's not that hard to realize just by looking at the circuit.

Why is it go like that?

So a portable amplifier is a type of power amplifier.

It contains a pair of active devices, such as a complementary pair of transistors.

Here, one transistor supplies the power to the load from the positive power supply, and the other

one sings the current from the low to the ground.

Without further ado, let's see how the circuit works.

The imports know comes from a signal generator that outputs an easy signal or firewalls, and the output

voltage is less than five words with one diode drop.

What an amplifier, right?

Hold on and you will see.

Why is it so useful?

So during the first positive cycle of the signal, the two bases will become positive, right?

Then the positive half cycle reaches 0.7 volts.

The ambient resistor will start conducting, while the PMP transistor will be reversed by Earth.

Then be on transistor will turn on, allowing the positive half cycle to pass through.

But of course, the voltage of the positive cycle will be one dialed up less because of the base and

meter voltage drop.

As you can see, during the positive half cycle, the PMP transistor doesn't have any chance to turn

on because let's say if the base voltage of the NPF resistor is three volts, then it will be 2.3 volts.

But the emitter of the AMPS resistor is also diameter of the PMP transistor, and thus we already know

the condition for the PMP transistor to turn on is that the emitter has to be 0.7 watts higher than

its base, so there's no chance for this poor PMP transistor to turn on.

But no worries because the negative high cycle comes during the negative cycle of the signal.

Both bases go to negative.

So now the base emitter junction of the PMP transistor is forward biased.

Why the NBN transistor is in cutoff mode.

All right.

So again, why does this PM be transistor turned on?

Exactly.

They put signal goes up and down to negative.

But let's examine it in more detail.

From the point when the positive ha cycle goes down towards the negative highs, I could imagine they

would signal that zero was right now.

And if the impossible is a zero volts, both transistors are turned off, right?

So the meter voltage of the pump transistor, as well as the emitter of the NPN transistor will sit

at zero was because it is connected to ground through the load.

The input signal starts going lower than zero volts.

It almost reaches minus 0.7 volts, and then meter is still a zero volts.

The moment the input signal is equal or lower than the minus 0.01 volts, the base will be lower with

one diode drop, then the emitter, so the PMP transistor will start turning on.

All right.

I hope you understand how the circuit boards right now, even though the circuit doesn't provide voltage

amplification and output, current is 100 times higher than the input.

Current output current is equal to bita of the transistor, which is 100 times the base current.

So if we thought the simulator during the positive high cycle of the input signal and we check the current

on the base and the current on the emitter, we will see that indeed the output current is 100 times

greater than the input current.

Overall, Glasby amplifier is much more efficient than Simple Class say, because here if we remove

the input signal, both transistors will be in cutoff mode so they won't conduct any current whatsoever.

One drawback of this push pull amplifier is the crossover distortion.

You might have noticed that there are little glitches here.

In other words, the output is distorted whenever it crosses ground.

Basically, this happens because during the positive cycle, from zero until zero point seven, would

that be an transistor is not conducting?

So the output doesn't know that the input signal has increased from zero to 0.7 watts, right only by

now, when the input reaches the zero point zero, what's the output?

We start increasing its voltage.

The same problem applies for the PMP transistor.

So how can we resolve this issue?

That while solution is to keep both transistors in conduction, even if there is no input signal present?

And this is where a class A B comes into play.

Plus, maybe, as the name implies, is a combination of Class A and Class B Class A B amplifier output

stage combines the advantage of the class amplifier and the Class B amplifier while minimizing the problems

of low efficiency and distortion associated with them.

Now, even without input signal, both transistors will conduct a small amount of current.

Let's check without the input signal.

There's a 197 millionth passing through the transistor.

This means that the transistor dissipates a constant power of two watts that's already way better than

the 35 watts of power dissipation that we have seen in the previous course.

These costs and participation is achieved by pre biasing the two transistors in the amplifiers output

stage and just for your information, small plastic transistor packages like the popularity or 90 to

dissipate a few hundred milliwatts.

The metal cases like the 80 or 18 and the OR can dissipate more power like several hundred milliwatts

plastic parts.

These are packages like the three or 220, and Tio two hundred forty seven dissipates well over 100

watts, approaching the dissipation of all metal deal three.

So how does this work with work anyway?

The two complementary transistors are biased in order to minimize the crossover distortion so that they

are always in conduction and due to this voltage, divide their network.

I want to ask you what is the voltage difference between this point and at this point, the what is

the difference between these two points is twenty volts.

Since this point is a Tamworth's and this is at minus 10 watts.

So there is a voltage drop starting from this resistor.

Another voltage drop.

Another one until it reaches the minus 10 wards.

Since Doppler voltage divider is the same as the bottom voltage divider, the voltage in the middle

is zero.

So we can even connect the ground here because it won't change anything.

The resistor values are chosen such that these resistance is equal to this one.

And also, these two resistances must be equal.

Then the properly designed the voltage between the two bases would be equal to two times bass and meter

voltage.

These what is drop will bring both transistors about the cutoff state.

They will therefore both conduct simultaneously a portion of the input signal.

If there is a what is a drop of 0.7 volts across this resistor, and since this terminal is at round,

it means that the base of the NPRM transistor is higher with zero point zero volts than the emitter,

which, after all, is connected to ground as well through the load resistor.

We all know that if the base is higher than the emitter with 0.7 volts, the transistor will turn on.

On the opposite side, though what is drop across this resistance is the same seeing as it has the same

value and also the same current is passing through it.

Now from ground, until this point, there's a 0.7 voltage difference, which in turn means that the

meter, which is also the ground, is higher of 0.7 volts than the base of the PMPA transistor, which

is enough to turn the transistor on.

Now, of course, you can play with the value of these resistances, and you don't need to have a voltage

difference between the two bases as high as 1.4 voids.

It can be lower, and the lower you go, the more efficient the circuit gets.

Because if the wattage difference between the two bases is lower than 1.4 volts, the transistor will

conduct less current.

And so the quiescent clatter and the meter current is less, which in turn means lower participation

on the active devices.

But this comes at the expense of greater crossover distortion.

So it's a compromise between Chris and out of current and the crossover distortion.

We forgot to mention one important disadvantage of the circuit, and you might have already guessed

it, the few complimentary transistors need to be identical, even though this is npm and the other

one is PMP.

The ethical characteristics for both of them must be identical.

So the main reason why this configuration cannot be used for Class A B amplifiers is that the set of

values of the resistors will only work for a particular Push-Pull configuration.

Moreover, the set of values needs to be chosen very carefully, especially if the complementary transistors

are different.

This method is very similar to the voltage divider network.

The only difference is that an adjustable resistance or potential meter is placed between the two networks.

The advantage of this solution is to closely match the biasing of the two complementary transistors

with a controllable resistance, even if the transistors have different electrical properties.

So again, the advantage of this adjustable biasing arrangement is that the basic amplifier circuit

does not require to use of complementary transistors.

We've closely matched electrical critics or at the exact resistor ratio within the voltage divider network,

as the potential meter can be adjusted to compensate.

So this is the solution to the problem of having slightly different electrical critics sticks of the

two active devices.

But there's another problem which is probably even worse than this one.

Let's go back to the previous circuit for the ease of understanding the problem.

This problem is caused by the thermal runaway, so thermal runaway occurs in situations where an increase

in temperature changes the conditions in a way that causes a further increase in temperature, often

leading to a destructive result.

It is a kind of uncontrolled positive feedback.

Thermal runaway occurs because of the semiconductor temperature increases due to surface heating, as

well as potential ambient temperature increase the current through the transistor increases as well.

So again, as the temperature of the transistor increases, the quieter current decreases as well,

and the higher electric current means that the transistor will warm up even more so.

Both transistors due to thermal runaway will enter into a vicious cycle, which will lead to destructive

results.

So how can we resolve this problem?

One way to compensate for any temperature related variation in the base emitter voltage is to use a

pair of normal forward by a diodes within the amplifiers biasing arrangement.

As you can see, a small constant current flows through the series circuit of R1, D1, D2 or two producing

voltage drops, which are symmetrical either side of the input.

We have no input signal voltage applied.

The point between the two diodes is zero woods as current flows through the chain.

There is a forward biased voltage drop of approximately 0.7 watts across the diodes, which is applied

to the base emitter junction of the switching transistors.

So again, the voltage drop across the diodes biases the base of the NBN transistor to about 0.7 worlds

and the base of the PMPA transistor to about minus 0.7 watts, does the two silicon diodes provide a

constant voltage drop of approximately 1.4 volts between the two bases, biasing them about cutoff?

The trick starts from here in real world, these two diodes are positioned right next to these two transistors,

and most of the time these transistors are mounted on a heatsink.

These studios are usually mounted on the same heatsink as the output transistors.

Therefore, when the due transistors heat up, so will the two diodes.

So again, the diodes in the transistors are very close to each other, and also because they are on

the same heating as the transistor is heating up.

The diode will be affected, too, heating it up as well.

And why is this good for us anyway?

Well, the temperature coefficients of the transistor itself is positive, meaning that the transistor

is heating up.

The base emitter voltage is increasing, leading to more current flow through the circuit.

On the other hand, the temperature coefficients of diode is negative, meaning that the diode is hitting

up.

The forward voltage drop across its terminal is decreasing.

The base emitter voltage will decrease due somehow counterbalancing the positive temperature coefficient

of the transistor with the negative one.

In practice, diode biasing is easily accomplished in modern day integrated circuit amplifiers, as

both the diode and the transistor are fabricated onto the same chip, such as in the popular alarm 386

audio power amplifier.

This means that they both have identical characteristics, curves over a wide temperature change, providing

thermal stabilization of the case and current.