An interesting solution to this whole business of participation and distortion in Class A billionaire

power amplifiers is to abandon the idea of a linear stage entirely and use instead of switching scheme.

So imagine that the push pull follower transistors are replaced with a pair of transistor switches,

weave one on and the other off at any time so that the output is switched completely to plus the 15

volts or two minus 50 models at an instant.

Imagine also that these speeches are operated at a high frequency, say, at least 10 times the highest

audio frequency and that they are relative timing is controlled by a technique that we'll see later.

In other, of course, such that the average output voltage is equal to the desired analogue output.

And finally, we add them as low pass filter to kill the high switching signal, leaving only the desired

low frequency analog output intact.

OK, it probably is hard to imagine all the things that I said, so let's just move directly to the

circuit.

All right.

So this is Class D or switching amplifier.

It has the advantage of very high efficiency because the switching transistors are either off, meaning

that there is no current that is passing through it or is hateration, meaning that the connector emitter

voltage is nearly zero.

So the power dissipated in the switching transistors, which is nothing else but the product between

the connector emit a voltage and the connector current is always small.

Efficiencies of 90 95 percent are possible.

And because of this, the amplifier does not generate a lot of heat and does not require a big heatsink

like in your class AB amplifier do, right.

There's also no worry about thermal runaway.

The downsides are the problems of emission of high frequency noise.

Switching feed through to the output and the difficulty of achieving excellent linearity.

Plus, the amplifiers are nearly universally in inexpensive audio equipment, and they are increasingly

finding their way into high end audio equipment.

The input signal is converted into a specific modulated, which is a rectangular signal using a comparator.

This basically means that the input is encoded into the duty cycle of the rectangular pulses.

These rectangular signal is amplified, and then a Lopez filter will convert the rectangular pulses

back to the original analog signal.

Of course, amplified.

There are other methods for converting the signal into policies such as Delta Sigma modulation.

But for this project, we will use, we will be using PVM, as you can see in this plot that I attached.

You can see how we transform sinusoidal signal, which is the input into a rectangular signal by comparing

it to a triangular signal.

But the positive peak of the sine wave the duty cycle of the rectangular pulse is 100 percent was the

negative peak.

It is zero percent.

Natural frequency of the triangle signal is much higher in in on the order of hundreds of kilohertz

so that we can later extract our original signal.

Unfortunately, as you might know, a real filter not an ideal one does not have a perfect brick wall

transition from band to band.

So we want the triangle signal to have a frequency at least 10 times higher than 20 kilohertz, which

is the upper human hearing limit, right?

As you might know us, well, the theory is one aspect, and practice is another.

If you want to put the circuit into practice, really stumble upon some problems.

The first issue is the rise and fall time of the devices in the power stage.

And the second issue is the fact that we are using an and more transistor for the high side driver.

And what do I mean by this?

Because the switching of the moths is not done instantaneously, but it's more like going up and down

the hill.

The transistors on time will overlap.

Creating a low impedance connection between the positive and negative power supplier is these causes

a high current plus to pass through our MOSFET, which can obviously lead to failure to prevent this.

We need to insert some dead time between the signals that drive the high and low side MOSFET.

While way to achieve this is to use a specialized mos for driver from the international rectifier,

such as the Air two, one, one or else, and the specialized ices provide a boosted gate voltage needed

for the high side and Mos.

Don't worry if you don't understand why we use these ices.

The purpose of this course is only to make you familiarized with this Class D amplifier and later in

the future.

We will come back to this with more knowledge.

Looking at the circuitry, different eyes for the filtering stage.

On the other hand, one of the best ways to do this is to use a border war filter disciple.

Filters have a very flat response to the band, and it means there's the signal that we want to achieve

will not be attenuated too much.

Alright, so in order for us to understand how the circuit works in more detail, we need a good set

of knowledge about how this operational amplifier works.

They were first used in analog computers to perform mathematical operations, and they are essentially

a differential amplifier with very high gain.

These characteristics can be exploited, of course, with the help of a few external components to perform

the mathematical operations required for another computer, namely multiplication, a summation and,

most importantly, integration.

So basically, you can do all sorts of calculations using this operational amplifier and hence its name.

It wasn't until they become available as low cost integrated circuits that it became practically.

To use them for general purpose applications.

It is configuration without any external components used, these operational amplifier works as a competitor,

and the Operation Amplifier competitor compares basically one another.

What is Level V, another analog voltage level and produces an output signal based on this voltage comparison?

So in other words, the Operation Amplifier Voltage compare to compare the magnitudes of the wattage

inputs and determines which is the largest of the two and the output magnitude of the comparator is

set by the power supply of the operation amplifier.

And in this simulator is not present for the ease of understanding.

But in real world, this device has to has two more pins, one for the positive power supply and the

other one for a negative power supply.

OK.

The other set of knowledge that you need to have is to understand why we use efforts in place of transistors,

even though the output of the comparator is a digital representation of the input audio signal.

It doesn't have the power to drive the load, which when we talk about audio amplifiers, the load is

nothing but a speaker, right?

So the task of this switching circuit is to provide enough power gain, which is essential for any amplifier.

The switching circuit is generally designed by using most parts, and their symbol differs a little

bit from the normal poor transistors that Evo are used to, right?

But don't worry, because in the next course intended for intermediate people, we will explore plenty

of circuits using MOSFET and operation amplifiers so that you will have a very good set of knowledge

in electronics and you won't be afraid of looking at, you know, circuits while trying to unravel the

mystery behind them.