All right, guys, in the previous course, we have learned about how to use the Senate diode as a voltage

regulator.

First, I want to mention that using a diode in this configuration to regulate the voltage across a

load is not very used and recommended.

Even if it works, it has this major drawback.

That is this resistor here will dissipate out of power since it's basically in series with our Lord.

Second, you need to choose it in a way so that enough current is flowing through the Senate diode and

the current limited light is not very low so that enough current can pass through the node.

So imagine previously that there is a kind of compromise that you have to make here.

A better voltage regulator can be constructed using a zehner along with a transistor.

Now the current limiting resistor for the Senate off can be much larger since it won't effect the current

flowing through the node.

Second, the load can request a much larger current from the voltage regulator circuit.

Now this circuit is usually good enough.

However, this equation still has some drawbacks, and that is the output voltage of the regulator cannot

be adjusted, so it's tied to the breakdown voltage and a diode.

Second, if the load needs too much current, there's a chance that this transistor will blow up, meaning

that it will heat up and destroy it, since there's a limit of coral that can be passed from collector

to emitter.

So if too much current is passed through the transistor, it will heat up and get destroyed.

The third drawback is that there is this base ammeter voltage drop of the transistor, which is around

zero point six votes for a typical transistor.

This means that the output voltage of the regulator circuit will be equal to the breakdown wattage of

DNA diode minus the base ammeter voltage drop.

So the breakdown voltage of DNA is 5.5 watts, but the output voltage is just four point nine words

since around zero point six is dropped across the bass and emitter of the transistor.

I know we didn't learn about transistors yet.

Basically this base ammeter voltage drop of zero point six.

What is necessary to byas the transistor?

In other words, to open it up and conduct current?

So how do we design a better voltage regulator circuit?

What is regulators are nowadays available in the form of integrated circuits.

These are, in short, Caldas Icee regulators, along with the functionality like a normal regulator,

an easy regulator has the properties like thermal compensation, short circuit protection and surge

protection, which are built into the device.

See, regulators comes in many types fixed positive voltage regulators, fix negative voltage regulators

and adjustable voltage regulators.

Now let's go briefly through each one of them.

Let's start with the fixed positive voltage regulators.

They are called fixed because the output of these regulators is fixed to a specific value and the values

are positive, which means the output, what is provided is a positive voltage.

The most serious is 78 series.

And ISIS will be like seven eight zero six seventy eight, twelve seventy eight, 15, etc., which

provide the plus six volts plus twelve words and plus 15 words respectively as output wattages.

This figure shows the ISO seventy eight 10 connected to provide a fixed ten volts positive regulated

output voltage.

All you need to do is to power this ac DC voltage.

Of course it needs to be higher than the voltage that will output, which in this case it's a third

world and all you need is to place these two capacitors as shown here where they are optional.

But it's good to have CS C one is used to prevent unwanted oscillations and the output capacity to act

as a filter to improve transient response.

Now, the second type of ice regulator is the fixed negative voltage regulators, the output of these

regulators is fixed to a specific value and the values are negative, which means the output, what

is provided is negative the most.

Your series is 79 series and the ISIS will be like 79, 06, 79, 12, 79, 15, etc, which provide

minus six words, minus 12 words and minus 15 words respectively as output voltages.

So this figure shows the AC 79 10 connected to provide a fixed 10 volts negative regulated output voltage.

The two capacitors had the same apurpose.

Again, C one is used to prevent unwanted oscillations and C two to improve the transient response.

The next type of what the regulator is the adjustable one.

An adjustable voltage regulator has three terminals in, out and adjustable in the input and output

terminals are common, whereas the adjustable terminal is provided with a variable resistor, which

lets the output to vary between a wide range.

This figure shows an unregulated power supply, driving an alarm 317 adjustable AC regulator, which

is commonly used.

The alarm 317 is three times positive adjustable voltage regulator and can supply up to one point five

amps of load current over an adjustable output range of one point twenty five words to 37 words.

Since alarm regulators are commonly popular and used in almost any circuit, I think it's important

to understand how at least one of these ISO works in more detail.

As a result, in the next course we will check the working principle of an and 317.

I see.

So see you there.