Hello and welcome back.

In this course, you will find out how to build a variable power supply using an alarm 317, well,

you should highly pay attention to this course because these elements are very popular and they are

often used in other ways.

So let's get started on

the theory that you see here is nothing else but what is inside of the alarm 317.

And as you can see, it has plenty of components.

And I guess you don't want to get into how the circuit works, right?

If you take a step back and instead we look at the functional block diagram, the complexity of the

circuit is drastically reduced.

So this block is basically a summary of the circuit.

If I can express myself like this, which shows the principal parts or functions that are connected

by lines to understand how this block diagram works is still challenging for us since we didn't learn

about operational amplifiers yet.

But don't worry, because starting with the next chapter, we will only focus on this magical and highly

appreciated component.

And we will also build the power supply, which will very much resemble to this block diagram, despite

the fact that internally the Alarm 370 looks difficult to understand, you will be surprised how easy

it is to use.

And that's one of the reasons why people use it all of the time.

Of course, it has its drawbacks, which will be discussed towards the end of the course.

Now, the alleged 317 voltage regulator is a three term adjustable voltage regulator, which can supply

an output voltage adjustable from one point to what do 37 watts and it can supply more than one point

five amps to a load looking from the front of the voltage regulator.

The first being from the left is the adjustable pin.

The middle one is the output voltage.

And the thing is the input voltage viene is the pin which receives the incoming voltage, which is to

be regulated down to specific voltage.

So for example, they put voltage in can be fed like tablets, which the regulator will regulate down

to five words they put in receives the incoming unregulated voltage.

The next one is the adjustable pin and this is the pin used to set the desired output voltage.

And so we will see how to do that.

The Lespinasse is the way out and this is a pin which outputs the regulated voltage.

So it's quite easy, right?

The input pin receives the voltage that has to be regulated down the just about being reset the desired

output voltage that will appear on V out.

Now that you know the pins, how do we modify the voltage to that which we want output.

We do this by changing the value of the resistor connected to the adjustable pin of the voltage regulator.

So let's see how the schematic is set up here.

You can see that we connect to resistors, to the voltage regulator, and these registers determine

the voltage that the voltage regulator adjusts to and outputs.

So the voltage that the adjustable regulator outputs is determined by the following equation.

And therefore, you can see based on the formula that the more the value of resistor are to increases,

the greater the voltage output in our set up.

Now, these are the values we are going to use and we are going to put swearwords into the voltage regulator

and the regulated down to five words.

So based on this equation, in order for the alarm 317 to output thyroids, the value of R2 must be

720 ohm.

I want to mention that unfortunately we can't simulate the circuits since the simulator doesn't provide

us with this type of ISIS.

So just paying attention and I would like you to build this secret for real, or we might find another

simulator which provides this regulator.

So set this record up and then use the multimeter to check the output voltage by placing it across the

one microwave capacitor now changed the order to register and place a one point five kilometers in its

place.

Now the voltage output should be near 10 volts.

So you can see this is the advantage of adjustable deregulators.

You can adjust it to any voltage within the range that the voltage regulators support.

Now, you might wonder what the purpose of C1 and C2 well see what is needed if the device.

So this circuit is far from any filter capacitors.

This information you can find as well in the dataset of the 317.

So if you go to typical applications, you can see that they use a capacitor here as well.

And down here it says that these capacitor is recommended, particularly if the regulator is not in

close proximity to the power supply filter capacitors.

So if you have the AC DC converter and these capacitor is physically placed far away from the alarm

317, you should place this capacitor so that the noise that picks up down the line can be filtered

down to ground so that it won't be fed into the regulator.

However, if they are close to each other, you can get rid of it.

Now the purpose of C2 is more subtle, it is optional and it is used to clean up the transient response.

In the datasheet, it says that this capacitor is used to improve transient response, but it is not

needed for stability.

So what is transient response?

Well, transient responses, the response of a system to a change from an equilibrium or a steady state.

So, for example, if the scene with Output's fireballs see, and suddenly the voltage at the adjust

being is changed so that now the output becomes 15 watts, then some oscillations can occur at the beginning

until it calms down and gets into equilibrium.

The most common instance of a transient response in a circuit occurs when a switch is turned on or off

a rather common event in any electric circuit.

Now, of course, in this circuit, there's nothing that could potentially change the output superfast

only if you can change this resistance or the other one in less than like one microsecond, which you

can't, of course.

But if you combine the circuit with four little circuit, which uses a microcontroller, one of the

pin could control the pin.

Right.

And that would happen very fast.

Now, there's actually a reference to transient response in a data sheet of the regulator.

And we can see that when the input voltage of the regulator changes, for whatever reason, the output

voltage will suddenly increase or decrease.

There's kind of a spike that is generated at the output which shouldn't be there.

Right.

A well-designed regulator should keep its output voltage constant, even if there are some fluctuations

in the input voltage on the second plot.

We can see that when the load suddenly demands more current from the regulator, again, the output

suddenly drops for a little time and then it comes back to equilibrium.

So you should be aware of these things since this is an adjustable regulator.

Placing constant value resistors is counterintuitive, right?

We cannot change the voltage only if we change manually the value of the resistor.

And this is how an Alarm 370 regulator would look then connected to a circuit so that it supplies a

constant these high voltage output.

In this year, we add these high voltage supply to the input pin of the regulator.

This is the PIN which again receives incoming voltage, which the regulator will the regulator down

the voltage which enters the spin, must be larger than the voltage it is filling out.

Remember, voltage regulators are just devices that regulate voltage down to a certain level.

They do not and cannot create voltage on their own.

Therefore, the input voltage must be greater than the output voltage in this circuit.

We want to regulate five of this year's output and therefore the input voltage must be greater than

five points generally with regulators unless they are low dropout regulators, which will be explained

soon.

You want the input voltage to be about to voice higher.

So therefore, since you want five voices output, we will feed into this regulator seven voice.

So what's a Laudrup regulator?

As you might have observed, one of the drawbacks of this regulator is that it cannot create a voltage

lower than one point two woods because the internal reference voltage is set at one point two words.

And this also means that the input voltage has to be at least one point, two words higher than the

output voltage that we want to regulate down.

Now, more expensive regulators that has more features like better temperature stability, higher current

handling, less noisier battery projections, et cetera, are low dropout regulators.

So a low dropout regulator can regulate the output voltage even when the supply voltage is very close

to the output voltage.

And this feature comes very handy, especially when you are dealing with low voltages.

So now that we have said that the input voltage will be seven words and the output will be five words,

we must now deal with the adjustable pin.

This is the pin, which allows us to adjust the voltage to the level we want.

Since we want words to be output, we must calculate which value of art you will yield an output of

five words.

So by using the formula for the output voltage and knowing that our one is equal to 240 on which, by

the way, is a value that the datasheet recommends, the equation is now the following and resolving

four are two or two will be equal to 720 ohm.

So if all two being a value of 720 on the island, 317 will output fireballs if fed an input voltage

greater than five.

Oh, it's all right.

So by now you know how to use these voltage regulator.

And what I want to measure is one of the major drawback, which is not quite a drawback because it really

depends where you use the circuit.

So what makes this voltage regulator weak?

Is that the maximum current that it can output is three point four arms and one point eight amps, respectively.

If using this type of package, however, I wouldn't recommend you to power any circuit that requires

around three amps because the regulator will heat up very fast and it might get destroyed.

So you should mounted on a heating or or there are some tricks actually that you could use to increase

this output current.

So the next course will go a little bit more in depth with the dataset.

And I will show you what are the different configurations that you can build.