So let's take a look on the datasheet of the island, 317 a little bit, because I want to show you

that the data did actually provide some very useful information and guidelines, how to build different

types of circuits.

And the reason why I'm showing you this is because I want you to know that when you are using regulators

where there are tons of different regulators outside, OK, and looking at the data of the particular

alarm that you are using, it can ease your life very much.

So the beginning of the data sheet provides us information about its features.

What are the applications where this particular L.M. can be used?

A short description and then we can see here a battery charge circuit.

I will explain how the circuit works soon.

Don't worry.

Now, let's scroll down a little bit.

Here we can see the peeing configuration functions, so this regulator comes in three different packages

and that is presented here.

Here we have the absolute maximum ratings, which, for example, tells us the maximum input to output

differential voltage, which is 40 void's.

Then we have the ESD ratings, which says that the regulator can handle electromagnetic discharge up

to 2.5 kilowatts if it's a human body model and one kilowatts if it's charge device model.

Or at the next table represents the recommended operating conditions, telling us the minimum and maximum

voltage that it can output, the output current can be between zero point zero one and one point five

amps.

And note that this is a recommended use.

So if you wanted the regulator to output more current, you should mounted on a heating.

Then we have the electrical characteristics, which provides us information about different parameters

like light regulation, low regulation, thermoregulation, etc., well, this table is less interesting,

so let's move further.

Then we have typical characteristics which shows us different types of graphs, so the first one, it's

about lower regulation and we can see here how the output voltage behaves when the output current increases

under different ambient temperatures.

Then we have the transient response that we already talked about.

Right.

So let's move further.

Then we have the functional block diagram.

OK, so this is a high level abstraction of what's inside of the Realm 317.

All right, now let's move further.

And here, notice that we have a typical application of how this regulator is recommended to use.

We can see that this is actually improved from the one that we built in the previous course, and they

were nice enough to explain what's the purpose of each component in the circuit.

So if you are curious what each component does, here's a clear explanation.

So this is a typical application, but if we scroll down, we will stumble upon system examples.

The first one is zero would do 30 volts regulator circuit.

Where do you find anything strange in the circuit apart from using a negative power supply?

What I find interesting is that this circuit can output a voltage as close as a zero volts so it can

output even lower voltages than one point to Watts, which was mentioned as the minimum voltage capable

to output.

In the next course, we will learn how to create a power supply that can output positive and the negative

voltage.

So don't worry about these negative 10 volts right now.

By the way, if you are curious why these nodes used it here to prevent the negative power supply to

sync current out of the ground.

So while a positive voltage sources current, the negative voltage is sinking current.

So these diode here prevents Corones from the ground, which is a zero would to move towards the minus

10 volts.

Right, minus Tannenwald.

Is it a lower potential?

So current will tend to flow from the higher potential to a lower one.

But see, this current through a diode can flow only from the energy towards the cathode current is

basically blocked.

All right.

So the other circuit that we see here is an adjustable regulator circuit with improved Rieper rejection.

So what is a rejection?

Well, repair rejection is the ability of the regulator in this case to maintain constant or accurate

output voltage despite AC fluctuations in the power supply, which is the input voltage.

So C2 helps to stabilize the voltage at the adjustment pean, which helps reject noise and diodes one

exist to discharge C to increase the output is shorted to ground.

So if the output voltage is shortly to ground, so if we is connected to ground by mistake or because

a component got damaged for whatever reason, this diode will create a low impedance path for the C

due to discharge the one we conduct and then the one conducts.

It has very low resistance, right?

Ideally it's zero.

So C2 will discharge nicely through the one and through the ground.

Right.

The next circuit is caldas precision current limiter circuit.

So this circuit basically acts like a current saw circuit, which we learned in the course intended

for beginners.

And as you can see, the output current is limited to one point two divided by R-1.

So current limited circuits are key to power supplies, protecting them in cases of a short circuit

or other overload condition in view of the possible damage to a power supply in cases of overload.

Currently, meters are almost always fitted and they are a standard feature incorporated into reregulated

power supply.

I see where this regulator doesn't have a limited built inside of it.

So this will be probably placed into a bigger power supply circuit to limit the output current grade.

Now here we have a circuit called US Battery Charger Circuit.

If you ever need to design a battery charge circuit, you can use this this one.

So by using our one in our two, we can set the output voltage, which we think is ideal to charge our

battery.

These zero point to all resistance is used, as you can see, to limit the current output of the three

hundred 317 minimizing damage to the battery cell.

Well, right at the beginning, when you connect your battery to charge, the battery will be seen as

zero.

Resistance is we are seeing very much current for a short amount of time and that can be enough to,

Kirsan says.

So when you connect the battery to the circuit, instead of creating a short circuit for a very short

amount of time, the current will be limited to one point twenty five volts.

Divided by hour is great.

Now the next circuit is called us 50 million amps constant current battery charger circuit.

So the input voltage should be four point twenty five volts higher than the battery voltage.

And the charging current is set to one point twenty five volts.

Divided by this 24 or restarts in about circuit.

The current was limited indeed, but it was not set to be constant.

So it could be as much as the battery demanded.

Basically, as long as it's not shorted here, the current is set to be constant so it can be lower

or higher.

All right, and the last quit I want to show you is the silk with Caldas high current adjustable regulators

who quit by using the silk with we can bypass the current limitations of this regulator.

These type seventy three must be a power transistor, since most of the current will pass through it

and these PMP transistor is only used to drive the power transistor.

There's a huge collective resistance here of 500 home, which is used for the purpose to limit the current

passing through the control of the transistor.

So current that is provided by the input voltage will take the path of least resistance.

Right.

And which path has the lowest resistance through these powers?

Transistor.

Right.

Because there's no collective resistance whatsoever like the other one.

So even here it says that the NPN at the top of the schematic allow higher occurrence we out than the

three 317 can provide while still keeping the output voltage at levels determined by the adjustment

been registered if either of the three seventeen.

So if you need, for whatever reason, higher occurrence to source to your load, you can use the circuit.


