All right, we come back.

If you have made it here, I want to congratulate you.

It is a pretty long journey, right.

And I hope this course is very beneficial for you.

So, again, thank you for joining and it was a pleasure to have you here.

Now, before any discord, there's still something important that I want to show you, and that is how

to design a what is regulator using an upper hand by using a common operation amplifier and a few other

external components, it is possible to design a linear voltage regulator capable of offering excellent

performance and particularly suitable for powering low power.

Loads of voltage regulator, as we know, is designed to automatically regulate the voltage level.

This makes sure that even when a load is applied, the voltage doesn't drop.

So voltage regulators are used to adjust the voltage from a power source to the voltage a device requires.

The situation here not only performs the function of a water regulator, but can generate a stabilized

output voltage with an error of less than one percent.

It provides a fast response to changes in low voltage, generating an almost completely repoll free

output voltage.

So we have an unstabilized D.C. power source which may contain repairs and other noise and the output

we get.

A regulated voltage which reduces the repairs at the voltage won't drop on the load as long as the input

voltage is higher than the required output.

Voltage is fine.

We can output voltage based on our requirements.

All right.

But how do we set the output to a specific voltage level using this voltage divider?

All right.

So in order to understand how this circuit works, we have to go back to our EU rules regarding options

so we know that there is no input current flowing into the two inputs.

Right.

Which is great.

And the second rule is that the OP will do whatever it can to keep both inputs at the same voltage.

As you can see, this diode here is not a whatever diode.

It's a zero diode which is used for voltage reference.

So this diode here is biased through this resistance.

And when the dial is correctly reversed, biased, the zehner diode keeps the voltage across its leaders

close to the zehner breakdown voltage.

So if the breakdown wattages six words, for example, and if the zehner is properly biased, meaning

that there's enough voltage and current flowing through it, then the voltage on the Naani voting machine

will be six words.

So if our desire is to output at Warboys, for example, a zehner diode before breakdown voltage of

six volts is a good choice.

Why?

We will see that in a minute.

Now, if the voltage on the nonee working Pinnies six, what's the voltage on the inverting pin?

Has to be six words as well.

Right.

But how do we get six words on the inverting pin when this pin is connected to the output of this?

What is divider?

Well, let's assume that both resistors have the same value.

And if so, then the voltage divider has to be powered with swearwords in order to output six watts.

Right.

And you can bet that the op ed will output whatever voltage is required for the voltage divider to be

powered to avoid and well, this Travolta is nothing else but the output of our voltage regulator circuit.

So what voltage does the operator has to output more than 12 watts, right.

Because the transistor has a base ammeter voltage drop.

If this voltages around zero point seven, what they're up at will output twelve point seven words so

that the voltage or the editor of the transistor will be to avoid.

All right, but after all, why do we use a transistor here?

Couldn't we just connect the output of the UPB directly to the output of the voltage regulator?

Well, we could, but the opposite might not be able to supply enough current to the load.

For example, a very popular op used by students and hobbyists is the symbol for one up, and this one,

if you check it datasheet, you will see that it can output a maximum current of just 20 millions.

Well, 20 million is not very much right.

And as a result, this transistor here is used to supply the load with much more current than the OP

itself could possibly supply.

The only job of this up is to drive these transistor with the proper voltage and supply enough base

current to the transistor.

Remember, collector ammeter current is equal to better times based current.

Now let's go to the simulator and continue our discussion there.

Here we are.

So in order to simulate an unregulated voltage source that has ripples in it, I have chosen a triangular

wave generator.

And as you can see, the input voltage looks like this.

And what we get at the output is a ripple free, clean DC voltage that is suitable to your power and

load.

So the output voltage is stable regardless of the current required by the load.

Now, the purpose of DNA diode is to provide a voltage reference, keeping the positive input of the

up about six volts about ground.

Now, the UPB outputs whatever voltage is required to keep the miners input also at six volts, right.

And this what is divider ensures that the output voltage is two times the reference voltage, which

is to what you might ask, what is the purpose of this resistance here?

Well, this resistance is used as protection if someone by mistake short the output terminal above ground.

So if the output is shorted there, the current will be so high that the transistor will blow up.

And we don't want that right.

A simple resistance.

The series will do the job.

So the maximum control that will flow in this path is the input voltage divided by this resistance.

Unfortunately, we can't see this resistor in action because if I showed the output, the simulator,

we complain that the maximum current is exceeded.

And that's because the operator is treated as an ideal one and an ideal option can output an infinite

amount of current.

Well, in real life, that's not the case.

The majority of the options can barely output the current more than zero point five amps.

Now, what happens if you want to change the output voltage to a different one?

We always change.

The resistance is around to get our necessary output voltage.

And yes, I almost forgot to show you that the output voltage can be calculated using this simple equation

which says that the output voltage is equal to the general voltage times are one divided by our two

plus one.

So by using this equation, it's quite easy to find out the appropriate value of these two resistors.

Now, if you want to convert the circuit into an adjustable voltage regulator, then instead of these

two resistors, we can use a potential meter.

Now, by using a potential meeta, we can increase or decrease the output voltage depending on our needs.

Care must be taken.

When you choose the transistor, it is advisable to use a power transistor instead of a small SIGNALER

transistor, and that's because of the power dissipation in any linear regulator.

Heat losses or this transistor increases that the output voltage decreases as the output voltage decreases,

more and more heat dissipates or the transistor.

But why is that?

Because the what is difference between the input and output has to be dropped somewhere, right?

So if the input is 16 words, let's say, as you can see, I have changed the triangular generator to

simply DC power source for this example.

And the output is six fold.

That note that the output can be lower than the reference voltage.

So this is one of the disadvantage of the circuit.

That's why you will most often find a voltage difference of one point twenty five balls or something

like that.

So where were we?

If the input is at 60 votes and the output is at six words, then the voltage difference between the

two is ten would add this voltage has to be dropped somewhere.

Right.

And where will it be dropped across this transistor?

Of course, the main disadvantage of linear regulators is their inefficiency, mainly due to the excessive

power dissipation transistor, which operates in a linear region because efficiency is given by the

output voltage divided by the input voltage ratio.

It follows that the circuit has an efficiency equal to six words divided by 16 words in this case,

which is equal to 37 percent, and therefore 63 percent of the energy is dissipated in the form of heat.

It is therefore necessary to provide appropriate cooling systems such as heating's or heat dissipation

layers on the BCB made of copper or other metals.