To understand why a group of Silkwood laws are so important in analyzing electronic circuits.

Let's do a couple of exercises in this circuit.

We have a51 battery in Series V for one kilogram resistor.

And the task is to find out the current flow in this closed loop circuit, or, in other words, the

current supplied by the battery.

We apply Ohm's Law, which says that current is equal to five old divided by one Coulomb, which is

equal to five milliamps.

Simple enough.

In this circuit we now have three resistors series and the task is the same.

Find out the current flow.

Firstly, we have to find out the total resistance of the circuit.

So the total resistance is a sum of the three resistances.

One kilo plus two kilo plus three kilo equals six kg.

And now the current supplied by this battery will be 12 words divided by six kilo, which is equal to

two milliamps.

So two milliamps will flow in this circuit.

Awesome.

In this recruit, we have a five bullets battery in series with two 500 or more resistances which are

in parallel before one kilogram resistor.

The task is the same.

Find out the current supplied by the battery.

We have first observe that these two resistors are in a series, so the equivalent resistance of this

series connection is one kilo.

We now have one kilogram resistor in parallel before one kilogram resistor.

Right.

The total resistance of this parallel connection, if you do the math, is 500 ohm.

And knowing this by applying Ohm's Law, the current is equal to five watts divided by 500 ohm, which

is equal to ten milliamps.

So far so good.

What we have seen so far is that some secrets may be analyzed by reducing the circuit to an equivalent

resistance, after which current can be determined.

Many complex circuits, however, cannot be analyzed with the series parallel techniques developed in

the preceding sections.

For example, this circuit is known as a multi loop circuit, which consists of junctions.

A junction, also known as a node, is a connection of three or more wires in the circuit.

The previous methods cannot be used because not all the resistors are in clear series or parallel configurations

that can be reduced.

Give it a try.

The resistors are one and or two are in a series and can be reduced to an equivalent resistance.

The same is true for resistors are four and or five.

But what do you do then?

How can you reduce the circuit to a single equivalent resistance?

You cannot.

If you were to take the second battery out of the circuit.

Yes.

In that case, it is possible to find out the equivalent resistance.

But what if, instead of finding out the current supplied by this battery, we want to find out the

current flowing through this resistor?

Or how would you find out the current flowing through this resistor?

You see, even though this serve with cannot be analyzed using the methods already learned to selected

analyses, rules can be used to analyze any selected, simple or complex.

The rules are known as kill rules after their inventor, Gustaf Kirchhoff.