All right.

In this course, let's focus on kickoffs, current law, kickoffs.

Current law states that the current flowing into a node or junction, you name it must be equal to the

current flowing out of it.

And this is a consequence of chart conservation.

As stated earlier, a junction or node is a connection of three or more wires.

Current is the flow of charge and charge is conserved.

As a result, whatever charge flows into the junction must flow out.

Although it is an oversimplification, an analogy can be made with water pipes connected in a plumbing

junction.

If the wires were replaced by water pipes and the water was assumed to be incompressible, the volume

of water flowing into the junction must be equal to the volume of water flowing out of the junction.

Kick of current law is really easy to apply in our 20 circuits, and the best way to show it to you

is by us working through a couple of exercises in our precious simulator.

We have this circuit which consists of a battery and three resistors.

The value of the components is less important for this exercise.

And my first question to you is how many nodes does the circuit have?

The answer is, do we have one note here?

And one more here.

Remember, a node is a connection of three or more wires.

Now, let's try to apply current law on this node here.

First, notice that the current running through R one is 4.1 million.

The current running through our two is 2.6 million.

And this current flowing here is 1.5 milliamps.

You don't have to remember these values is just that.

It's important to realize that three different currents are flowing in this circuit.

Due to this, let's label them as i1 i two and I three.

I'm going to start from here and I will call this current US I1.

I'm making the text a little bit smaller.

Okay, let's call the next one.

I do.

All right.

Finally we have.

I treat.

Perfect.

Now, what can we say about these currents with regard to this node?

Well, I one, as you can see, is entering the node.

yi2 and I three are leaving the node.

Kickoffs current law says that the sum of currents entering a node is equal to the sum of currents leaving

the node.

Well, in that case, I one is the only one entering the node.

So we can say that i1 is equal to I two plus i three.

Is this true, though?

I one was 4.1 milliamps.

So 4.1 milliamps is equal to 2.6 milliamps plus.

1.5 milliamps, which is indeed correct.

Now, we could apply the same law on the second note here, but it's not necessary since the equation

will be the same.

Try to do it on your own and see if the equation is different.

All right.

Now let's do another exercise in this circuit.

We can notice right away that we have two nodes one here and one here.

Applying Jericho's current law on the first thought is enough sees if we were to write it for the second

node would result in the same equation is just at the position of the currents would differ.

Now I already labeled the currents.

So let's write out of the equation.

I1 is the only one entering the node while I too I three and I4 are leaving the node so we can write

down that I1 is equal to i2 plus i3 plus I4.

Awesome.

It's not that hard, is it?

So let's recap.

Kickoffs.

Current law says that the currents entering the node are equal to the currents leaving the node since

charge is conserved and not lost magically.

In a node we have four nodes while here.

While here.

And two here for this exercise, we will write down the equation for these two notes.

For this note.

I one is entering the node and the rest are leaving the node.

So i1 is equal to I two plus I three plus I.

For what about the next node?

I hope you won't make the same mistake as many people do, thinking that the current after a resistor

is different from the current before the resistor.

No, we had the same current on either side of the resistor.

And this is one of the mindset shifts.

A beginner has to go through their learning electronics.

So as you can see, I do and I three are entering the node while I five and I six are leaving the node.

Hence I do.

Plus I three is equal to I five.

Plus I six.

All right.

So by using Ohm's Law and kickoffs, current law, we are almost ready to analyze just about any DC

circuit.

So kickoffs law helps us understand how current and voltage work within a circuit.

All right, what about voltage?

What if we need to find out the voltage drop across these 200 or more resistor?

We know that I1 is equal to a two plus i3.

Right?

But using only this equation and Ohm's Law, there's no way we can find out how much voltage is drop

across this resistor.

For this, we need to use the second law of kickoff, which is called kickoffs.

What is law?

See you next course.