In this course, we will learn about kickoffs.

Second rule, which is also known as kickoffs, was this law where kickoff was examining circuits.

He realized that in a closed loop circuit, whatever energy is supplied by a water source, the energy

must be transferred into or other forms by the devices in the loop.

Since there are no other ways in which energy can be transferred into or out of the circuit.

Kickoffs for this law states that the algebraic sum of potential differences, including what is supplied

by the voltage sources and resistive elements in any loop, must be equal to zero.

For example, consider a simple loop with no junctions.

The circuit, as you can see, consists of a worthy source and three resistors.

The labels A, B, C and D serve as references and have no other significance.

The usefulness of these labels will become apparent soon.

The loop is designed as a loop a, B, C, D, E, and the labels help keep track of the voltage differences.

As we travel around the circuit now, start at point A and travel to point B, the voltage of the voltage

source is added to the equation and the potential drop of the resistor r one is subtracted from point

B to see the potential drop across R2 is abstracted from C to the the potential drop across R3 is subtracted

and from points D to A.

Nothing is done because there are no components.

Now this graph shows the voltages as we travel around this loop.

As you can see, voltage increases as we cross the battery, whereas voltage decreases as we travel

across our resistor.

As we already know, voltage drop is equal to the current through the resistor times.

The resistance of the resistor sees.

The wires have negligible resistance.

The voltage remains constant as we cross the wires connecting the components.

So looking at this graph, we can note that the voltage increases as we cross the battery and it decreases

as we cross.

Each resistor sees the resistance of the wire is quite small.

We assume that the voltage remains constant as we cross the wires connecting the components.

Now, if we were to step back and think about the ground in a circuit, we know that the ground is always

a zero watts potential.

Looking at the circuit, the ground level is anywhere between point D and E.

If you were to measure the voltage at a given point using a word meter, you would most certainly place

the black probe between point D and E and the RET probe where you want to measure the voltage.

Looking at this for this graph, we can immediately see why the voltage between points D and E is at

zero watts potential.

And that's because as we loop through the circuit, the voltage generated by the voltage source is drop

across each resistive element and by the time we reach the last resistor, the whole remaining voltage

is dropped.

Now based on kickoffs, voltage law and by looking at this graph, we can write down the voltage equation

for this A, B, C, D, a loop.

And it goes as follows The voltage of the battery minus the voltage drop across one minus the voltage

drop across or two and minus the voltage drop across our three is equal to zero.

So the entire voltage generated by the battery must be dropped across all the resistive elements until

we reach the ground.

So that ground will be at zero work potential and ground is always at zero.

What's potential from this equation?

Current will be equal to the voltage of the battery divided by r one plus r two plus our tree, which

will result in a current of two amps.

I know the circuit could have been analyzed using the previous methods already learned, like finding

out the total or the equivalent resistance and then applying Ohm's Law.

But I will demonstrate the power of kickoffs method in the next course.


