By applying kickoffs rules, we generate a set of linear equations that allow us to find the unknown

values in the circuits.

These may be currents, voltages or resistances.

You see, each time a rule is applied, it produces an equation.

And if there are many independent equations plus unknowns, then the problem can be solved.

Using key cost methods of analyses requires several steps as listed in the following procedure.

So whenever we want to analyze the circuit using kickoff rules, the first step is to label the points

in the circuit diagram using lowercase letters like A, B, C, D, etc. These labels simply help with

orientation.

The second step is to locate the notes in the circuit.

The notes or junctions are points where three or more wires connect, label each node with the currents

and directions into and out of it.

But make sure at least one current points into the node and at least one current points out of the node.

Since we are going to use a simulator, it's going to be quite easy or very easy to see what currents

are flowing in and out of a node.

The third step is to choose the loops in the circuit.

Every component must be contained in at least one loop, but the component may be contained in more

than one loop.

And we will see how this is done when we do an experiment.

The fourth step is to apply kickoffs, current law.

As I was saying in the previous course, some notes should not be included in the analyses.

You only need to use enough nodes to include every current.

And the final step is to apply kickoffs with this law.

With the help of this map.

So what does this map tell us?

Well, it shows us how to deal with the sign of the voltage drop across the component.

Once we apply key across this law, it will all make sense once we actually go through an exercise.

But if we look at this diagram more attentively, we can notice that then the direction of travel is

the same as the direction of current flow.

The voltage drop across this resistor will have a negative sign in front of it.

So we will have to subtract it.

The second figure shows that if the direction of travel is the opposite of the direction of current

flow, we will have to add the voltage drop so it will have a positive sign in front of it.

The third figure shows that if we are moving from the negative terminal to the positive terminal, we

have to add the voltage of the battery.

And then we are moving across the voltage source from the positive terminal to the negative terminal.

We have to subtract the voltage.

Now, you might be asking, what do we mean by directional travel?

Let's take a quick example.

And the circuit is actually the one that we used in the previous course to write down kickoff voltage

law.

The loop of travelling is chosen arbitrarily.

So instead of a, b, c, d, e, it could have been a d, c, b, eight.

It doesn't matter because the end result will be the same for this demonstrative exercise.

Let's leave the lupus.

A.

B.

C, d.

E.

So the direction of travelling is clockwise and we use the conventional car flow model which says that

current flows from the positive terminal towards the negative terminal.

Overall, the direction of travelling is clockwise and the current flow is also clockwise.

Knowing this, let's apply kickoffs.

Second rule again first we go from A to B and based on this map, the voltage of the battery will have

a positive sign.

Then we encounter a resistor.

Since the direction of travelling is the same as the direction of current flow, we will need to subtract

the voltage drop across it.

As you can see, nothing is left between points A and B, so we travel further and continue our analysis

between points B and C.

Again, we are travelling from B to C.

The current is flowing in the same direction, so the voltage drop across or two will have to be subtracted.

Then we move on to Points C and D and we will have to do a subtraction again.

We are done and based on course what is ruled, this equation has to be equal to zero.

Now, what happens if instead of choosing the loop ABC the E, we go in the opposite direction from

a d, c, b, e, where this time the direction of travelling is anticlockwise.

However, the current still flows from the positive terminal towards the negative terminal.

So what will the equation look like from a 2D?

Nothing is done since there's no component from D to see.

We stumble across all three and now the direction of travel doesn't match the direction of current flow.

So based on this map, the voltage drop will have a positive sign.

From sea to be the same story.

So we will be adding the word is drop.

Then we continue our analysis going from B to A CS.

We go from right to left and the current flows from left to right.

We will have to add the voltage drop across R one, but then we reach the battery and our map says that

then we are moving from the positive terminal toward the negative terminal.

We need to subtract the voltage and that's what we will do.

We will insert the voltage of the battery before a negative sign in front of it.

And this equation is again equal to zero.

Now placing side by side the two equations obtained previously.

We can notice right away that they are exactly the same equation.

And hopefully with this little exercise I could prove to you that the direction of travelling can be

chosen arbitrarily.

It won't change the end result.