In the previous course, I laid down a strategy that you can use to analyze the circuit using kickoffs,

rules, and it's really straightforward.

Now you have a circuit diagram in front of you.

First, you want to label the points in the circuit as A, B, C, D, etc., which would only help

with the orientation.

Then you locate the nodes and label them with the currents and directions into and out of it.

Then you choose the loops in the circuit by making sure that each component is included in at least

one loop.

Then you apply a kickoffs current law which will produce some equations related to the currents in the

circuit.

Finally, you apply kickoffs.

What is law?

Now let's examine some steps in this procedure more closely than locating the nodes in the circuit.

Do not be concerned about the direction of the currents.

You see, if the direction of current flow is not obvious, choosing any direction is sufficient as

long as at least one current points into the node and at least one current points out of the node.

If the arrow is in the opposite direction of the conventional current flow, the result for the current

in the question will be negative, but the answer will still be correct.

Now the number of nodes depends on the circuit, right?

Each current should be included in a node.

Do not include nodes that are not linearly independent, meaning nodes that contain the same information.

For example, consider this figure.

Now, as you can see, there are two nodes or junctions in this circuit.

Node B and node E points A, C, D and F are not junctions because a junction must have three or more

connections.

The equation for node B is I1 is equal to a two plus three, and the equation for Node E is a two plus

a three equal to I1.

As you can see, these are equivalent equations, so it is necessary to keep only one of them.

So now we are choosing the loops in the circuit.

You need enough loops so that each component is colored once.

Without repeated loops, this figure shows four choices for loops to solve a sample circuit.

Choices A, B, and C have a sufficient amount of loops to solve the circuit completely.

Option D reflects more loops than necessary to solve the circuit.

In the next course, we will be analysing the circuit similar to this.

But before we do that, let's try to analyze some basic circuits in our simulator that contain only

one loop.

All right.

So here in this closed loop circuit, we have a worthy source of five words, a resistor across, which

is connected to what meter which measures the voltage drop across the resistor.

Since there's only a single resistor in this closed loop circuit, the whole voltage provided by the

voltage source will be dropped across it.

Has the work meter shows five worlds.

The current in the circuit has the same direction as the flow of positive charge that these conventional

current flow hear.

The flow of current through the resistor is from point A to point B that is from positive terminal to

a negative terminal.

As a result, as we are travelling in the same direction as current flow, there will be a fall in potential

across the resistive element, giving rise to a minus.

Current times are voltage drop across it.

So the voltage drop, according to Ohm's Law, is defined as current times.

Resistance sees current flows from A to point B, in other words, from the positive terminal to the

negative terminal, there will be a fall in potential across this resistor, a fall results in a minus

sign so we can write down that the output voltage of the water source minus the current times, this

resistance is equal to zero if the flow of current is in the opposite direction.

So it's from point B to point A, then there is a rise in potential across the resistive element as

we are moving from a negative potential to a positive potential, giving us a plus current times this

resistance what is drop.

So if we choose to analyze the circuit in the clockwise direction as we did before, then we would write

down the current times.

This resistance minus the voltage of the voltage source is equal to zero.

Right.

I know it might be confusing at first, but don't worry because we will do more exercises so you will

get a good hang of it.

In order to apply calculus of what is law, we must first decide the direction of current flow, which

can be either clockwise or anticlockwise.

That's the type I recommend you to choose a direction that is the same with the actual direction of

current flow.

So the current in this case flows out of the positive terminal to the negative terminal, which is a

clockwise direction.

Right?

Hence we choose to analyze the circuit in a clockwise direction now because what this law states that

the algebraic some of the potential differences in any loop must be equal to zero, since the two resistors

are one and or two are wired together in a series connection, they are both part of the same loop,

so the same current must flow through each resistor.

Right?

As a result, the voltage drop across resistor are one if current times are one and the voltage drop

across resistor or two is current times are two.

Since we are travelling in the same direction as current flow, there will be a fall in potential across

these resistive elements.

Hence a minus sign at the beginning has to be added.

As a result, we can write down that the voltage source potential minus current times are one minus.

Current times are two is equal to zero.

This means that the sum of the voltage drops across these two resistors is equal to the voltage source

potential.

Now we can simplify this equation by writing vs equal to current times or one plus or two.

Right where R1 plus R2 he is nothing else but equivalent or total resistance in this closed loop path.

We can see that applying Google's voltage law to this single closed loop produces the formula for the

equivalent or total resistance in the series circuit.

And we can expand on this to find that the values of the voltage drops are the loop.

So the current flowing in this path is equal to V.S. divided by or one plus or two, right?

As a result, the voltage drop across R1 is equal to current times R1 where current is equal to less

divided by one plus R2.

So the voltage drop across this resistor can be calculated using this equation while the voltage drop

across the second resistor can be calculated using the same method and thus you can see using these

two equations we can find out the voltage drop across both registers without knowing the actual current

flowing into, say, liquid.

How cool is that?


