All right.

So we have this illiquid and the task is to calculate the current flowing in this path which is i3 as

well as the voltage drop across R2.

First, let's try to analyze the circuit a little bit.

So we have two nodes A and B and three independent loops.

So keep voltage law can only be applied around the closed loop.

But how many loops do we have?

But one might say we have two loops, when in fact we have three loops.

Very important to understand this.

So there's one closed loop here that we have another closed loop here, and which is the third loop.

That is the outer loop.

So we have two in loops and one outer loop.

For each loop we will write down the equation.

But first, let's apply the first law of kickoff, which is kickoffs, current law.

It states that the current entering a node is equal to the current leaving the node.

So I1 is entering the node and I two and i3 are leaving the node.

So i1 is equal to high two plus i3 great for node bi3 and I too is entering the node while I1 is leaving

the node.

So again, i1 is equal to i2 plus i3 since the both nodes have the same equation.

These are we can get rid of one.

Now in order to apply a kilo of salt is law, we have to choose the direction of the current flow,

which can be either clockwise or anti-clockwise in the first loop.

Current flows in the clockwise direction, so we choose a clockwise direction as well.

This means that we can write down the equation as ten words minus A1, times R one minus a three times

or three equal to zero.

Great.

So we have our first equation.

Now let's move to the next loop.

Here we can choose either a clockwise or anticlockwise.

It doesn't really matter.

So let's try the anti-clockwise direction.

Well, since we have chosen an anti-clockwise direction and since the actual current flow is opposite

to our anti-clockwise direction, there is a rise in potential across this resistive element as we are

moving from a negative potential to a more positive potential, giving us a two times or two of voltage

drop.

Now what's the voltage drop across our three?

The actual current flow matches the direction that we have chosen, which was anti-clockwise, and as

a result there's a fall in voltage across it, so the sign for it will be negative.

As a result, I two times are two minus I three times r three is equal to zero.

All right.

Now let's move to the outer loop, which is our third loop.

So let's choose a clockwise direction for this so we can write down directly that ten words minus A1,

times R, one minus I two times are two is equal to zero.

So this is the equation of the outer loop and thus you can see the equation doesn't contain anything

related to i3 or ST.

That's because we strictly focus on our outer layer of the circuit.

Great.

Now we have four equations in our disposal and using these four equations, we can't calculate anything

we want.

From this equation we can extract I do as a function of I three so I do is equal to I three times are

three divided by r two.

Now plugging in the values I do is equal to five times I three divided by two.

We know that I one is equal to I two plus I three.

Right?

So let's replace I want in this equation.

So we get ten worlds minus I two plus I three times r one minus I three times are three, which is equal

to zero.

And we know that I two is equal to five times I three divided by two.

So replacing I two in this equation we get only one unknown variable which is a high three.

So ten minus five divided by two times i three plus I three times are one minus I three times are three

is equal to zero.

I always pair some time because I already made these calculations here in the paper.

So this equation resolves to a current.

So I three will be equal to 170 milliamps.

And let's see, the current is indeed 117 milliamps.

Nice.

Now we have to calculate the voltage drop across our two.

For that let's just find out I two as well.

So i2 is equal to five times eight three divided by two.

From this equation I two will be 294 milliamps.

So the voltage drop across this resistor is I two times or two so 294 milliamps times 20 is equal to

5.88 volts.

And congratulations.

We just successfully managed to find out that the current and the voltage drop across this resistor.