Understanding what input and output appearances, it's a very important concept for you to understand,

since it's often used in electronics when we want to define a particular circuit.

If you have any sort of questions after this course, please leave your question below, and I would

be more than happy to help you out.

So every circuit that has an input in some way and output will have what's called an input and output

impedance.

This box represents a circuit, right, that has an input and an output.

Let's be more specific.

Let's say that the circuit is an amplifier circuit.

What does an amplifier circuit do?

It takes the input signal, which can be a voice, a song, whatever.

This AC signal is, a low power or with a signal and is amplified.

A circuit, which, of course is powered by some external DC source, will take this AC signal and amplify

it in voltage and current.

So overall in power.

But that's not the point.

The point is, as I have said, everything that has an input and an output in some sort of way, we

have an input and output impedance.

The input impedance of the circuit can be represented as a resistor that gets connected to ground and

the output impedance can be represented also as a resistor, but this time in series with the circuit.

Now, even though they are represented as being outside the circuit, they are not.

They are inside this box.

But this is the easiest way to show what inputs and outputs impedance is.

First of all, it's important to realize for understanding, of course, that the input and output impedance

are a concept and do not represent any physical resistor that can be removed or changed.

Indeed, they represent a value in ohms that takes into consideration the design of the amplifier circuit.

We will detail later of these different Conexion arrangements.

So they put impetuses connected across the terminals of the amplifier while the Arpatepe is connected

in series with the amplifier, a representation of this configuration is shown here now, even though

these two resistors that represent input and the pedals are seen to be connected outside the amplifier

circuit.

They are actually inside of it.

This is just a convenient way to illustrate how input and output impedance effects in the circuit.

In fact, if you don't like this representation, we could use this one.

Where, again, we have a circuit represented by this dotted box and inside we have that in which is

the input evidence and that out, which is the output impedance we are talking about the same circuit

is just that.

Now we have divided the two concepts so we can talk about them separately.

So let's talk about this important evidence first.

Now, what is this important evidence of a secret?

We know that it's measured in arms, but what exactly is this impedance?

Well, this is impetus is the impetus seen by anything connected to the input of a circuit or device

such as this amplifier.

So it is the combined effect of all the resistance's capacitor CS and inductance is connected to the

input inside the circuit or device.

It is normal to use the term input impedance evil for simple cases where there is only resistance and

the term input resistance could be used instead.

As we have mentioned, they put a pittance of Basilicata represents the combined effect of all the resistance's

capacities and inductance is connected to the input side of the circuit or device.

We also know that competitors and doctors have what's called reactance right.

Capacitors have capacity reactors and the doctors have inductive reactors.

And these reactors is very with the frequency of the applied signal.

Right.

The effects of capacitors and inductors vary the frequency.

So if these are present, the input impedance will vary the frequency, the effects of capacitors and

inductors are generally more significant at high frequencies.

Now, what's very important for you to know is that usually input impetuses should be high at least

10 times the output, the appearance of the circuit.

This ensures that the input will not overload the source of the signal and reduce the strength.

In other words, the voltage of the signal by a substantial amount.

All right.

So let's go to the simulator to understand this concept better.

Now, this white box here represents our circuit.

Of course, we don't have one, but let's imagine that it's an amplifier stage that receives the song

signal coming from a microphone, for example, the microphone in our case is represented by these 10

volts AC source, and the signal has to be amplified by this amplifier stage.

Now, this amplifier stage circuit, we have an input impedance represented by this one megawatt resistance.

So we don't know what's inside of the circuit.

But the combined effect of all the resistance's capacity, reactor size and endarterectomy, this will

result in an impedance, which is the impedance that the microphone or better say the signal sees when

it enters the circuit.

Well, in order to understand why the import impedance of a circuit should be high, let's actually

change this AC source to a DC one you will see in a minute why?

On the other hand, we know that any water source like a battery or even a microphone, we have a tiny

resistance in series we've hit.

Since nothing is ideal in this world.

We have already talked about this, so I will go through it again.

All right, so we have two different circuits now.

The first one outputs a signal to the Second Circuit, which will amplify it and will drive a loud speaker,

for example.

Now, this series, registers of the voltage source, actually should be lower in value.

Right.

But this time, let's just leave it like this.

So right now, everything looks good.

The First Circuit outputs attaboys signal and the Second Circuit receives this entire 10 void's.

What happens if the input impedance of the amplifier circuit is lower than one?

I go home.

Well, let's change this value to, let's say, 500 km.

All right, so the amplifier stage still receives steroids if we go lower to, say, 50 km.

I notice that from towards the signal has been reduced to nine point eight words.

If we go with a lower value to, say, 10 km.

The voltage reduces further to nine point one woods.

We mentioned that the reason why the importance of the circuit should be high is because this will ensure

that the circuit in this case, the amplifier stage, will not reduce the strength or in other words,

the voltage of the incoming signal.

Right now, since the input impedance is quite low, the amplifier stage, instead of receiving the

entire Tannenwald signal, receives only nine point one words.

So instead of amplifying a Tamil signal, it will amplify only the nine point one watts.

The reason why the signal dropped in voltage is because if you look attentively, this register with

this one actually forms a symbol of what is divider.

Using the voltage divider equation, we can easily calculate or realize why this output voltage dropped

to nine point one watts.

Now you might say, what's the big deal?

The voltage has dropped with only zero point nine void's.

That's true.

But if this were a microphone, for example, that you talk to it, the output voltage that the microphone

generates usually ranges between zero point zero zero one world and zero point one words.

And we are talking only about microphones.

What if we have a sensor that outputs a very, very weak AC signal that has to be amplified so that

it can be further processed?

If the input impedance of the amplifier stage is low, the amplifier will basically overload the source

signal so it will lose from its strength even before it gets amplified.

And that's something we want to avoid.

All right, in the next course, let's go to the other end of the circuit where we will deal with the

output impedance.