Great.

So, again, we have this amplifier stage here that receives the incoming signal, which is a speech

or song, whatever, if the amplified and will eventually drive a loud speaker, the output impedance

is represented as a resistance increase.

If it's the with the output, impedance is again, nothing else but the combined effect of all the resistance's

capacity reoccurrences and inductive reactants is connected to the output side of the circuit.

This circuit will output an AC signal which is represented by this resource.

Now, an important fact that you have to remember is that usually output dependencies should be low,

less than a tenth of the load impedance connected to the output.

If an output impedance is too high, it will be unable to supply a sufficiently strong signal to the

load because most of the signals voltage will be lost inside the circuit, driving current through the

output impedance.

Is that out?

The road could be a simple component or the input impedance of another circuit.

So let's go to our simulator to understand why the output of the circuit should low.

All right.

So, again, we use a source here instead of an AC.

Just understand this concept easier.

And the signal is the one that the amplifier stage outputs after receiving that weak AC signal as input.

So depending on how big the amplification is, this output voltage can be firewall's towards 100 volts,

whatever the problem is with this output impedance or and by the way, this load here is, let's say,

a loudspeaker.

That would make sense.

Right.

And of course, the loudspeaker itself will also have an input impedance, which is represented by this

resistance.

I guess it's pretty easy to see why this output impedance of the circuit should be low now that the

output impedance of the amplifier is low.

The loudspeaker receives the entire ten Walt Disney signal without getting attenuated.

If we increase the output impedance to, say, 200 on the loudspeaker will receive only nine I mean,

eight point three volts instead of 10 volts.

That's because the output impedance, as you can see, of the First Circuit with the input impedance

of the Second Circuit, that in this case is just a loudspeaker will form of what is divider.

And by using the voltage divided equation, we can clearly see why this voltage drops even before entering

the loudspeaker.

So I hope you understood why the input pedals should be high and the output impedance low.

Maybe it's difficult to see exactly how this all works out, since it's quite abstract what we did here

with all these boxes and things like that.

Once we learn about operation amplifiers, for example, you will see that a very important feature

of it is exactly that.

Its input impedance is very high and the output impedance very low.

These characteristics of the AMP makes it quite an excellent amplifier, since it features a very high

input impedance, it can amplify very weak signals.

By weak, I mean signals that are very low in voltage and in current as well.

And because it features a very low output impedance, it can drive almost any kind of load in the next

course.

Let's talk about another interesting topic, cohodas impedance matching.

See you next course.


