If there is something to really keep in mind about why input and output dependencies are so important

is matching impedance matching, you see, is a simple concept that states that the power transfer from

last year to another is maximized first.

In the previous course, we have this cost that if you have two circuits, one that outputs a signal

to the next circuit, the output impedance of the First Circuit should be much lower than the input

impedance of the next circuit.

This maximizes the voltage drop across the input impedance of the Second Circuit rather than in the

output impedance of the first.

So if the output impedance of the First Circuit is low, the voltage or the signal will be dropped in

a bigger proportion on the input impedance of the Second Circuit and very little on the output impedance.

Ideally, no voltage should be dropped on the output impedance.

Nowadays, as a general rule, high input and low output dependencies are the norm, even if it does

not lead to an impedance match.

However, there are cases when we want the output of the First Circuit to be equal to the input impedance

of the Second Circuit.

Let's assume that we have an amplifier stage that will drive an antenna.

Everybody knows what an antenna is.

At least I hope so.

Why do you have to know about it?

Is that usually an antenna is designed to have a resistance of 50 on these 50 ohmes, nothing else but

the input impedance of the antenna.

So this is the resistance that the signal will see when it enters the antenna.

The question is, why would we want the output impedance of the first to be equal to these 50 ohms?

The reason of it is because in this way we can achieve what is called us maximum power transfer.

In simple terms, we make both impedance is equal so that the maximum power transfer, which is the

combined effect of voltage and current, can be transferred from the First Circuit to the other circuit.

This time we are talking about power and not about voltage.

So why is the power delivered to the antenna maximum, you might ask?

The transmitter output is usually connected to the antenna via a transmission line, which is typically

a quicks cable.

In other applications, the transmission line may be a twisted pair or some other medium.

Now what?

Here to know about a quiffs cable is that it has a carrier impedance which is also measured in arms

to achieve maximum parts for transmission line.

The line impedance must also match at the source and lower the impetuses.

If the impedance is around matched, maximum power will not be delivered.

In addition, standing waves will develop along the line.

This means the load doesn't absorb all of the power said down the line.

Consequently, some of that power is reflected back towards the source and is effectively lost.

The reflected power could even damage the source.

All right.

So it is is hard to grasp.

Let's go to our simulator to see why impedance matching is important.

This is a simple circuit showing various ways to terminate transmission lines.

We have four different circuits.

Each one has a source which generates a square wave signal and where normally it would be an actual.

But for this experiment, the source generates a simple square reverse signal.

Every five seconds, the source and the load is connected together via a transmission line, which is

a simple coax cable, which has an impedance of 55 ohms in each of the circuit.

The transmission line is terminated with different resistors value, and you can clearly see that if

the line is not properly terminated, a phenomenon called reflection will happen.

The reflection of the signal, as the name implies, means that the person in our case is not absorbed

entirely by the load and part of the energy is reflected back to the source.

All right, so let's take the first liquid.

The impetus of the source is 55 ohms.

The transmission line has an impedance of 55 ohms and the transmission line is terminated before 55

ohms resistance.

Since both ends are equal and the transmission line is also equal to 55 ohms, all the energy that the

source generates is absorbed by the load and no reflections will happen.

As a result, the pulse travels across and is absorbed the right.

And this is the most efficient way to terminate the line since it minimizes reflections that waste energy.

The second line is terminated with a resistor that is too large, causing the wave to be reflected and

absorbed at the other end, which is properly terminated.

The third line is terminated before assister that is too small, causing the wave to be reflected negatively.

And the fourth line is terminated the improperly at both ends, causing the wave to be reflected back

and forth for a while.

Now, if you were to measure the power absorbed by the Lord, let me stop the simulator the moment the

purse reaches the Lord.

All right, now let's check the first load dissipates a power of 83 milliwatts, the second one around

to milliwatt.

So the power absorbed is much lower, which is quite logical since the load has a much higher resistance

value than the first one.

The third load absorbs the power of 34 milliwatts and the Fourth Circuit around seven milliwatts.

What's interesting to note here is that even though in the Third Circuit the load has a much lower impedance

than in the first one, the power dissipation is ironically lower.

It should be the highest.

But since it's improperly terminated, a big part of the energy will be reflected back and get absorbed

by the source.

In the last year, with nothing matches the source impetus, the transmission lines impedance and the

impetus of the load is different, causing the wave to be reflected back and forth a couple of times.