Hello and welcome back.

How can we measure the input or the output impedance of a certain circuit?

Because impedance is an AC prop. It cannot be easily measured like resistance.

Connecting an ohm meter across the input or output of any circuit only indicates the DC resistance.

It is quite possible, however, to measure input and output impedance at any frequency using a signal

generator, an oscilloscope and a variable resistor.

The set up for measuring input impedance is illustrated in this figure here.

A variable resistor is connected between the signal generator and the amplifier input, and its resistance

is set to zero ohms.

So we have this square here, which could be any circuit, and we want to measure its input impedance.

Don't worry about this triangle.

For the moment, it's there just to illustrate that our circuit circuit is a specific circuit, which

can amplify the input signal typically used in audio circuits.

An oscilloscope or AC volt meter is connected across the amplifier load, which can be, for example,

in our case, a loudspeaker, isn't it?

So the first step is to set the signal generator to provide the sine wave output at one kilohertz.

The amplitude of the input signal should be adjusted so that the display on the oscilloscope is noise

free and distortion free.

The display on the oscilloscope screen should be as large as is practical and set, so it's amplitude

and half its amplitude can be easily estimated.

The resistance of the amplifier input should then be increased until the output wave form is exactly

half its previously set value.

But this setting the signal is shared equally between the test resistance and the input impedance of

the amplifier, which means that the resistance and the impedance are equal.

Now you can switch off everything and remove the resistance, and by measuring the variable resistor

with an O meter gives the value equivalent to the input impedance of the amplifier.

Thanks for watching, and in the next quarter, we'll see how to measure the output impedance of a circuit.