In most systems, including the mobile device, we have only one power source with fixed voltage level,

which is the battery, right.

But within the device there are many different parts which require different levels of voltage input.

So some parts would need a voltage, which is lower than the batteries voltage.

Some other parts would require higher voltage.

How can we supply all these different voltage levels from a single fixed voltage?

We would need special components which can translate a voltage from one level to another level DC DC

Converters is a kind of device or circuit that does this kind of voltage translation.

Now let's get see on this diagram.

DC DC converters can be split into two.

We have linear and switching converters.

We already talked about the linear voltage regulators write.

The thing about linear voltage regulators is that they will always step down the input voltage to another

fixed, constant regulated voltage.

Take, for example, the alarm 317, which is an adjustable voltage regulator that can supply up to

one point five amps.

So you have the input we're in and the output without the output voltage can be controlled by changing

the ratio of our one and or two.

Well, here in the example, R2 two is a variable resistor and by changing its resistance, you basically

change the output voltage.

All right, so the output voltage of an industrial voltage regulator is controlled by the ratio of the

voltage divider.

They cannot increase the input voltage only to lower it.

In other words, it steps down the voltage.

On the other hand, another type of implementation is that to use switching devices which turn on and

off the voltage source with certain patterns so that you can get the desired output voltage by taking

the average over time.

So they work totally differently than the linear power supplies.

He uses a switching element to transform the incoming power supply into a PRST voltage, which is then

moved using capacitors, inductors and other elements.

And they are many of three types.

We have converters, both converters and bulk, both converters.

So we will go through each one of them soon.

However, what I want you to understand now is the advantages and disadvantages that the Linnear and

the speeching regulators offer.

So let's start with the linnear regulators.

The advantages that they offer are as follows simple circuit configuration, few external parts, low

noise so they don't generate almost any noise in the circuit.

However, the disadvantages are as follows.

They have a relatively poor efficiency and they can generate heat and they can only step down the voltage.

Now, linnear regulators are almost always a good choice if you need to step down the voltage from one

level to another.

However, that saving energy is crucial, like in mobile phones, for example, in this case is linear

voltage regulators are not the best choice because of their relatively poor efficiency.

In this case, it is better to use a switching converter that can achieve significantly higher efficiency.

That early near voltage regulator.

They also generate less heat and they can step down or step up the voltage.

However, this also comes with some disadvantages.

Like more external parts required, it has a much more complicated design and they also generate noise.

The reason why they generate noise is because, as you will soon see, the switching circuit, which

in this diagram is called control, the circuit will turn on and off a transistor represented here as

a simple switch.

So it will turn on and off this switch at a very high speed.

As a general rule of thumb, the faster circuit switch, the more noise they generate.

Now, in this chapter, there will be a course where I'm explaining why a switching regulator has a

much higher efficiency than a linear regulator.

That's something important to understand for everyone.

But for that, I want you first to get familiar with this type of switching circuits.

Now, let's run through each one of the convertors briefly.

The convertor is a DC to DC converter that is producing a voltage that has been stepped down or in other

words, reduced from the input voltage, such you can use it to power a lower voltage device from a

higher voltage source.

Again, above converter produces a voltage that is lower than the input voltage.

Now, a boost converter, on the other hand, steps the voltage up, as suggested by its name and as

a result produces higher output voltage as opposed to the lower input voltage.

It is generally used in the likes of Ali deLites, that extra power from a lithium cell.

But of course, it can be used in many other applications.

So those converter produces an output voltage that is higher than the input voltage.

Another type of DC to D.C. motor is the caboose converter, Ababa's converter is a dual purpose DC to

DC converter.

It can either step up or step down the voltage in order to produce an output that may be higher or lower

than the input.

It can also be used to produce either negative or positive voltages and as a result is used in a variety

of places.

All right, so what we have seen here is just a very generalized, high level diagram of a computer,

as we mentioned previously, these converters use high frequency switching circuit together with inductors

and capacitors in order to understand how these converters work, will try to build our own in a simulator

without using any converter.

I see that offers solutions out of the box.