The first type of switching voltage regulator that we talk about in more detail is the converter with

power big a key parameter in many designs stared down or back.

Regulators are widely used, although a resistor would enable voltage to be dropped.

Power is lost.

Add in applications such as the many battery powered items used.

The power consumption is a crucial element.

The most basic form of a step down transition is to use a register as a potential divider or voltage

drop, or in some cases as a diode may also be used to stabilize the voltage.

The issue with this form of what is dropper or step down convertor is that it is very wasteful in terms

of power.

Any voltage dropped across the resistor will be dissipated as heat at any current flowing through the

dial will also dissipate heat.

Both of these elements result or the loss of valuable energy.

The linear voltage regulators are a good choice in almost all cases.

However, the problem with them is that they have this drop out voltage which will result in power waste.

For example, we may need to power a three point three words microcontroller from A to airballs supply

real.

The solution is simple.

We just add a three point three was linear voltage regulator.

I like the Helda 11 17 with the 12 words real and it regulates the voltage down to three point three.

What we have already learned the working of what the regulators in previous courses.

Now, suppose we have to power an LSD trip from the same three point three, what's real and it is easily

consume around 20 million each.

So a long trip would easily eat up an empire or so if you calculate the power dissipated by the regulator,

which is the input voltage minus the output voltage times, the output current, the power dissipated,

comes out to be around eight point seven watts.

Now, this is a lot of power for a little linear regulator to dissipate.

If we calculated the efficiency, which is just output power divided by input power, it comes out to

be a pathetic 38 percent.

Normally linear voltage regulator has very low efficiency compared with switching regulators.

Now we feel the pressing need to find something that can step D.C. warriors down and do it efficiently,

where power consumption is crucial.

We need to lower the input voltage in a more clever way.

This is where Buck Converters comes into play.

The fundamental circuit for a step down converter or converter consists of an inductor diode capacitor

and the speech.

Soon you will see that the switch is not actually a switch, but it's a transistor, a transistor that

you turn on and off very fast using an oscillator.

For now, let's just stick with this switch here, because it will be easier for you to understand the

working principle of this power converter.

So how does the circuit work, you might ask?

The working of a converter can be broken down into a few steps.

Step number one, the switch turns on and lets current flow to the output capacitor, charging it up

since the voltage across the capacitor cannot rise instantly.

And since the inductor limits the charging current, the voltage across the capacitor during the switching

cycle is not the full voltage of the power source.

Step number two, the switch now turns off since the current in an inductor cannot change, suddenly

the inductor creates a voltage across it.

This voltage is allowed to charge up the capacitor and power the load through the diode when the switch

is turned off, maintaining output current throughout the switching cycle.

These two steps keep repeating many thousands of times a second, resulting in continuous output.

Turning on and off the switch at a high speed requires another circuit which can generate a PVM signal.

In other words, a squarish signal with adjustable duty cycle, replacing the switch before and mosfet

and driving its gait before squarish signal.

It will work just like a switch.

Why do you use mosfet instead of a beeper?

Transistor will be explained soon.

But again, let's try to go over the circuit one more time.

Now, instead of a switch, let's use a beeper transistor and let's place a load at the end, the load

is ultimately what we want to power.

So when the transistor converts current the DC power supply, supplying the load with current initially

current flow to the load is restricted as energy is also being stored in L1.

Therefore, the current in the load and the charge on C1 builds up gradually during the on period.

Notice that throughout the on period there will be a large positive voltage on the one cathode and so

the diode will be reversed.

So therefore play no part in the action.

However, where the transistor is of the energy stored in the magnetic field around L1 is released back

into the circuit, the voltage across the doctor, which is the back, IMF is now in reverse polarity

to the voltage across L1 during the all period and sufficient stored energy is available in the collapsing

magnetic field to keep current flowing for at least part of the time the switch is open.

The back GMF from L1 now causes current to flow around the circuit via the load, added one, which

is now forward BIA's.

Was the inductor has returned a large part of its stored energy to the circuit and the lowered voltage

begins to fall, the charge stored in C1 becomes the main source of current keeping current flowing

through the load until the next on period begins.

The theoretical D.C. output voltage is determined by multiplying the input voltage with the ratio of

the on time of the PV and the time period of the PBM.

So the on time is the time duration of the on state and capital T is the time period of the square signal,

which as we know is equal to one over the frequency.

Since the frequency is fixed, Capital T becomes a constant in the equation and the only thing that

you can play with is the duty cycle, if we have a duty cycle or 50 percent, let's say, then the on

time would be half of the time period.

Right.

As a result, the output voltage will be half the input voltage.

Now, it's easy to see that this ratio cannot be more than one, and this is why the convertor is referred

to as step down convertor.

Now, let's try to build a circuit in our simulator and see how it works.