And here we are, so we have a firewall's power supply that is stepped down to around three point three

words, let us suppose that the law requires three point three words to operate and the circuit takes

the incoming fire was this voltage and steps it down to the required three point three words.

Here, as you can see, we use an engineer mosfet instead of a transistor, usually DC to DC converter

uses Masterfoods and people transistors, and that's because of some advantages that Masterfoods offer

over the B purwanto.

So Masterfoods are preferred for the following reasons lower power consumption, then B out and transistors.

This is one of the biggest advantages.

The reason why they offer lower power consumption is because then they are turned on.

So when they conduct current, the resistance between the train and source is much lower than for a

transistor.

So let me pause the simulator for a moment, alright.

And notice that when the Moskva is turned on, only 15 millions is dropped across the drain.

Our source, if you were to use a beeper transistor instead of this mosfet, the voltage across the

collector and ammeter would be much higher.

So mosfet is perfect when we use it as a switch because of its very low turn on resistance.

The second advantage is that when you see biasing a mosfet is much simple.

While by a single Russian transistor is a pain, the threshold voltage of this mosfet is one point five

miles.

So this means that when the voltage rises about this voltage current begins to flow from the source

itself, using another circuit that generates this square voltage which is supplied to the gate of this

mosfet, we use a simple square wave generator that outputs a square wave that has a voltage of then

volts.

In order for the mosfet work in the most efficient way, the mosfet should be fully turned on and then

fully turned off.

As you can see here, the mosfet switches between off state and linear state.

This is the pattern you should try to achieve when you are using a mosfet as a speech in the linear

region.

The mosfet will be biased so that the maximum amount of Gaith voltage is applied to the device which

results in the channel resistance.

In other words, the resistance between Draine and source being as small as possible within the maximum

DRAINE current flowing through the MOSFET suite.

All right.

So again, we use Moscovitz here because they have a much lower return on the resistance than the people

are ones, and biasing them is very easy, as you can see here.

Now, let's move further.

Now, why this simulator is so great is because you can actually see how carbon flows, let me slow

down the simulator and see what happens when the mosfet is turned on.

All right.

So the Fed is turned on and current flows from five words to the load.

Meanwhile, the inductor is building up its magnetic field.

So the plus sign is here and the minus sign here, it seems like the capacity is discharging through

the load.

But in fact, during the on period, this capacitor is gradually building up energy into it.

The deal right now doesn't have any purpose.

It is reverse biased.

During the off period, so the master doesn't conduct any current, the magnetic field of the inductor

is collapsing, but this time the polarity of the inductor is reversed.

So the voltage across the doctor is now in reverse polarity and this energy is now released back into

the circuit.

The capacitor is discharging and thanks to the diode, which is now forward by the current, will flow

around the circuit.

And was the doctor has returned a large part of its stored energy to the circuit and the load voltage

begins to fall, the charge stored in the capacitor becomes the main source of current keeping current

flowing through the load until the next on period begins.

OK, now you might be wondering how to change the output voltage.

The output voltage is controlled not by the frequency of the squarish, but by light duty cycle.

Notice how the shape of the square of signal changes when I'm changing the duty cycle of the signal

here.

And also notice how the output voltage changes when I'm changing the duty cycle.

Now let me decrease the duty cycle.

So the answer period of the square is low compared to the off period and notice that the output voltage

is gradually decreasing until it reaches a certain voltage.

Of course, in real life, this would happen in an instant.

Now, let me increase the duty cycle back.

And as you can see, the output voltage is gradually increasing back.

Great other thing to point out is that the reason why this converter has high efficiency is because

there is no voltage drop down on this line.

There is almost no voltage drop across the datasource.

So there is no participation and there is no active participation on the inductor as well.

The efficiency of these type of converters can reach up to 90 percent.

OK, so I know that this might all seem complex at first glance.

I advise you to play the circuit a little bit and go with your own pace.

The good news is that in real life you will almost never find the convertors in this forum where nobody

uses the convertors as shown here, because first of all, you have to design another circuit that generates

these PVM signal.

And another major problem is that there is no feedback in the circuit.

So the circuit that outputs three point three words doesn't have a clue whether it really outputs three

point three words or not.

If I change the low value, the output voltage that the converter outputs changes as well and there

is no any sort of feedback for the square wave generators here with these square generator should change

the duty cycle automatically when he sees that the output voltage tries to fall below or rise above

a predefined voltage.

So doing all this stuff by yourself is quite hard.

It's also hard to calculate the values of the components and the output voltage based on the duty cycle

and the value of the components.

That's why almost all of the time we use DC to DC converter ICS that are cheap, reliable.

They have a small footprint and they are easy to use.

Let's look at the data sheet of about converter.

I see the Alem 25 Ninety-Six is a popular DC to DC converter that uses a one hundred fifty kilohertz

internal oscillator and can supply up to three amps to load.

These devices are available in fixed output voltage of three point three words, five words to airballs

and an adjustable output version.

In this dataset, we find out how to set up the circuit so that it can output these fixed voltages.

And you can also set this regulator up so that the output voltage becomes adjustable.

Here it says that requiring a minimum number of external components, these regulators are simple to

use and include internal frequency compensation and a fixed frequency oscillator.

So basically, if we go lower, we will see a typical application of how you should set up the converter.

As you can see, there is no external PVM generator that is fed into the AC.

That's because the oscillator is built inside of it.

How great is that?

We don't have to worry about building your own external oscillator because that's already built inside

of it.

There is an input improving, by the way, the input voltage can range up to 40 volt, and this example

basically shows you how to build up yourself with so that it outputs a regulated five volts.

This part is actually similar to the one we have built in the simulator.

Another great thing about these converter boxes is that they have a feedback pin, the feedback pin.

Basically what it does, it takes the voltage from the output and compares that voltage to a reference

voltage which is built inside of the AC by comparing the output voltage with this reference voltage

that again is built inside of it.

The regulator, or better say the oscillator, knows how to adjust the duty cycle of the PVM signal

so that it can maintain the output at the fixed value.

So the function of a feedback loop in a DC to DC converter is to maintain the output at a fixed value.

Here, even if you change the resistance of the load, the output voltage won't change a bit.

So that's about the feedback.

Been awesome.

The regulator has been called on and off, and this line above on means that it's active low.

Basically, spin can turn on and off the regulator by pulling this pin too low.

In other words, the ground the regulator is turned on because it's active.

No other thing I want to mention is about the external components.

Whatever DC to DC converter are using, the value of the external components will be given even if they

are not shown like here on the schematic, you will find the values in a table or somewhere else in

the description, or they will give you a simple equation so that you can find out the value of these

components.

All right, so this is how you set up the converter to output a regulated fireballs when the input,

voltages, swearwords, words.

Now if we go lower.

We will find the function block diagram of this, I see, as you can see, the circuitry inside of it

is quite complex, but fortunately, the ice is very easy to use.

As you can see, it has a built in 150 kilohertz oscillator which outputs a sort of signal.

There are many techniques to generate a PVM signal, and this is one method of doing it so the oscillator

doesn't generate a square signal.

As you can see here, it's the computer that will output a pivot signal which will ultimately drive

the switch.

The switch is comprised of multiple transistors in a Darlington configuration.

So that's a small current in the base can drive a large amount of current through it.

Now, I won't go into detail how generating a signal is done, but basically what happens is that the

output voltage here is stepped down using this voltage divider.

This operational amplifier amplifies the difference between a reference voltage, which is a constant

one point thirty three words.

So it amplifies the difference between these constant voltage and the output of the voltage divider.

And the output of this amplifier, which is a DC voltage, is compared with the instantaneous value

of this sort of signal.

Basically, the higher the voltage on the inverting pin, the lower the duty cycle of the signal and

the lower the voltage on the inverting pin.

The higher will be the duty cycle.

By feeding back the output voltage, the internal circuitry will know if it has to lower or increase

the duty cycle of the premium signal so that it can maintain a constant regulated output voltage.

One more thing about this feedback being the beauty of feedback is that changes of input voltage will

be compensated for as well as any changes in the output.

What is due to changes in the load?

The same feedback loop corrects for both situations.

One more thing I want to show you is how to configure this AC so that the output becomes adjustable,

the configuration can be found here.

And so what is required is to add two resistors.

This capacitor here is optional, but good to have so R one and R two forms of voltage divider or one,

as you can see, is tied to ground.

The output voltage can be calculated using this equation where the reference voltage is equal to one

point twenty three words.

Also, the value of the components are given here.

So using a DC to DC converter I see is always a go to when you need a bar converter or a converter in

general.

If you really want to build your own converter, of course you can do it.

But these ices offer solutions out of the box and they have everything built in which in the end they

reduce the cost, the complexity.

You can see here how easy it is to calculate the output voltage and the overall size of the converter

becomes much smaller.