We'll come back, switched more supplies can be used for many purposes, including D.C. to D.C. commuters

often, although an easy supply such as a battery may be available, it's available.

Voltage is not suitable for the system being supplied.

For example, the motors used in driving electric automobiles require much higher voltages in the region

of 500 volts.

Then it could be supplied by a battery alone.

Even if bags of batteries were used, the extra weight and space taken up would be too great to be practical.

The answer to this problem is to use fewer batteries and to boost the available DC.

What is the required level by using a boost converter?

Another problem is batteries.

Large or small is that their output voltage varies as the available charge is used up and at some point

in the battery voltage becomes too low to power the circuit being supplied.

However, if this low output level can be boosted back up to a useful level again by using a boost converter,

the life of the battery can be extended.

The DC input to a converter can be from many sources as well as batteries such as rectified AC from

the main supply or ADC from solar panels, fuel cells, dynamo's and the DC generators.

The converter is different to the converter in that its output voltage is equal to or greater than its

input voltage.

However, it is important to remember that as power, which is equal to voltage times current, if the

output voltage is increased, the available output current must decrease.

So let's say if the converter works at a 100 percent efficiency, this would mean that all the power

supplied by the DC Disembody source would be transferred to the node.

Right?

If the converter boosts the voltage up, then the current must decrease so that the output power remains

equal to the input power.

This is just something to keep in mind.

This figure illustrates the basics of a book called Water, or in this example, the switching transistor

is a power mosfet.

Both people are power transistors and most folks are used to in power, switching the choice being determined

by the current voltage, switching speed and cost considerations.

The rest of the components are the same as adieus used in the converter, except that their positions

have been rearranged.

So let's demystify the working principle of a boost converter.

Step number one, the mosfet is turned on during the time the MOSFET conducts, placing a short circuit

from the right hand side of L1 to the negative input supply terminal.

Therefore, a current flows between the positive and negative supply terminals through L1, which stored

energy needs the magnetic field.

There is virtually no current flowing in the remainder of the circuit as the combination of Daewon C1

and the load represents a much higher impedance than the path directly through the heavily conductive

mosfet.

All right, and now comes step number two.

Now, the mass for this turned off as the mass, what is rapidly turned off, the sudden drop in current

causes and one to produce a bank, IMF in the opposite polarity to the voltage across one during the

on period to keep current flowing.

And this results into wattages, the supply voltage we're in and the bank IMF across at one in series

with each other.

This higher voltage, which is now we're in, plus the back yard footage now that there is no current

path through the mosfet forward bias is the one the resulting current through the yuan charges up one

to the input voltage plus the back GMF of the inductor, minus the small forward voltage drop across

the one and also supplies the load.

Step number three, the mosfet again conducts current.

Each time the mosfet conducts the method of the one is more positive than it's another due to the charge

on C one, D, one is therefore turned off.

So the output of the circuit is isolated from the input.

However, the load continues to be supplied with the input voltage plus the back half of the inverter

from the charge on C one.

Although the charge C1 drains away through the load during this period, C one is recharged each time

the mosfet switches off.

So maintaining an almost steady output voltage across the load.

Now the theoretical is the output voltage is determined by the input voltage divided by one minus the

duty cycle of the switching waveform, which will be some figure between zero and one corresponding

to zero percent to 100 percent.

So let's take an example.

If the switching square wave has a period of 10 microseconds, the input voltage is nine miles and on

is half of the period time that is five microseconds.

Then the output voltage will be nine, divided by one minus zero point five, which is equal to eighteen

volts, of course, minus the output of dired voltage drop because the output voltage is dependent on

the duty cycle.

It is important that this is accurately controlled.

For example, if the duty cycle increased from zero point five to zero point ninety nine, let's say

the output voltage produced would be nine, divided by one minus zero point ninety nine, which is equal

to 900 volts before this level of output voltage was reached.

However, there would be, of course, be some serious damage and smoke caused.

So in practice, unless the circuit is specifically designed for very high voltages, the changes into

the cycle are kept much lower than indicated in this example.

Great, now let's simulate a boost converter in our simulator.