So we already know that this helicopters is used to convert the input voltage to a higher voltage with

quite a simple circuitry.

You can see here that we have a five watts power supply and a circuit boost.

The voltage up to around 14 would the heart of every DC to DC converter.

There's a switching circuit that turns the transistor on and off rapidly.

Now, what I want to do is actually to slow the simulation down and hit the reset button.

So we are now starting at zero volts.

And as you can see here, the output voltage climbs up very slowly.

Remember, this voltage increase would climb almost instantly in real life.

So what is happening here?

Let me reset the simulator one more time and let's slow it down even more as it gives us more time to

see what's happening.

So as you already know, when you pass current training doctor, it creates a magnetic field when you

change the voltage passing through after the inductors, magnetic field will start to collapse and thus

inducing current through the doctor as it creates a high voltage spike as the magnetic field collapses.

So this liquid takes advantage of that very property of any doctor to step up voltage.

So here we have this and Channel MOSFET transistor.

Just imagine this as a normal on off switch, but we can switch it on and off very, very fast.

We can switch on and off hundreds of thousands of times a second.

We use a squarer generator to turn this mosfet on and off.

Then we turn to mosfet on current cash flow from the fireboats power supply through the inductor, through

the Fed and back to the firewall's power supply.

As we turn the mosfet on and these current flows through the inductor, a magnetic field builds up in

the inductor.

Now, when the Monteverdi's of current can no longer flow from the doctor through the Fed because the

magnetic field in this inductor needs to collapse and it does current through the circuit, the current

will flow through the diode and through the capacitor.

So every time the magnetic field of the inductor collapses, this voltage gets pushed through the diode

and gets stored into the capacitor.

Because we have a diet here, this stops the current flowing backwards from the Cabaser through the

Fed when it's on and back to the power supply.

Every time we get a voltage spike from this inductor, this adds to the voltage of the capacitor and

therefore it steps up the voltage.

So the voltage that we see here is actually the voltage of the capacitor because the switch is turning

on and off.

So first, the inductors magnetic field never fully collapses, so then the Fed is off again.

This causes a higher voltage on the adductor as it adds to the magnetic field.

Now, just so you understand, as we supply voltage to this inductor, the inductors polarity on the

left side is positive and on the right side is negative.

However, when the threat is of the polarity of the inductor changes instead negative is on this side

and positive on the right side, which then allows the current to flow to the rest of the circuit.

So just to give you an overall view of how this works, let's start this one more time and just watch

how it steps up the voltage from five volts and how it keeps climbing.

As you can see, this happens very, very fast.

And in real life, this would happen much, much faster.

Now, as I mentioned in the previous course, you want really fine circuits that uses both converters

in this form.

The circuit is used just to give you an overview of how they work.

But in real life, using a boost converter, I see is much more convenient, easier, cheaper, smaller

and efficient.

The boost converter, see, that we are looking at is the empty 36 zero eight one, which has a built

in oscillator of one point two megahertz and can supply up to two members of continuous current to load

the input voltage ranges from two worlds and 20 forwards and the output voltage goes up to 28 volts,

which is actually adjustable.

Let's see a typical application of this converter.

So this figure shows the basic application circuit, as you can see, it's not complex at all.

You have an input pin, a neighbor pin, which can turn off the AC so that no power is consumed around

being a feedback pin and a switch pin.

The feedback being, as you can see, is configured in the same way as in the previous about I see that

we looked at, it takes the output voltage and it steps down using this voltage divider circuit.

As far as the dial is concerned, you know, switching converter, its recovery time is important because

that determines how long it needs to turn off.

So you need a diode with low recovery time and low recovery charge shortly.

Diodes are the fastest, so they are better suitable for high frequency applications.

Plus they have lower voltage drop once again, improving the efficiency while a general-purpose diode

can have a turn on voltage.

In other words, a forward wattage, a drop of zero point six zero point seven words.

A short video can have a turn on voltage of as low as zero point two worlds.

If you now go lower, we can find somewhere the function block diagram of this integrated circuit,

as you can see, it has a built in oscillator that outputs a sort to signal that is fed into the inverting

pin of this computer, the voltage coming from the feed that is applied to the inverting input of this

amplifier and the reference voltage of just zero point six volts is applied to the non inverting input.

The purpose of an error amplifier is to see the deviation of the output voltage to this reference voltage.

Basically, it amplifies the difference between the two wattages and the output.

Voltage of this amplifier is fed into this computer.

If the output voltage, which is stepdown using that voltage divider that is connected externally,

tries to rise above the reference voltage, the computer will decrease the duty cycle of the PVM signal

so that these two voltages on the inverting and non-reporting pin are equal.

Remember, an upper amp will always try to keep both inputs at the same voltage.

So this PVM competitor will always adjust the duty cycle of the PVA signal so that the voltages on these

two input pins are kept equal.

This is the technique used in order to maintain a fixed output voltage.

If, let's say there wouldn't be a reference voltage, the integrated circuit wouldn't know if the output

is rising or falling below the set output voltage.

By comparing it to this reference voltage and amplifying the result, the PVM competitor will know how

to adjust the duty cycle so that these two voltages are kept equal.

At the end of the day, it all comes down to how much the output voltage is step down using the external

voltage divider.

Setting the output voltage is very easy.

Here, it says that the internal reference is zero point six words, the output voltage is divided by

a resistor, divider are one or two to the feedback pin and the output voltage can be calculated using

this simple equation.

This is always zero point six words, and the only thing you have to do is to play with the ratio of

one and R2 in order to set the desired output voltage.

In the following paragraphs, they explain how to choose the value of the external components, so the

recommended value of the inductor are four point seven to twenty two microarray.

For the input and output capacitor, they recommend you to use a ceramic 22 microworld one.

And as far as the dial is concerned, Chutki diodes are a good choice for a better efficiency.