All right, folks, now that we hopefully got an idea of how these switching regulators work, we can

talk about their efficiency at some point.

I mentioned that switching regulators have a much higher efficiency than linear regulators.

Right.

But I explain why that is, since I wanted you to get a little familiar with this switching circuits.

So to explain this first, let's have a look at how a linear regulator works.

I know we already covered this, so I would just go briefly through it to explain how the linear regulator

works and why it is so inefficient.

We will start with an example application as shown here.

In this case, we have a 24 words input that is being converted into a six volt output before Lord current

of one empire, as you can see, we don't use the linear voltage or whether I see what we have here

is just the main components that build up a linear regulator.

If you don't know how a linear regulator works internally, I advise you to go back to the course where

we build one from scratch.

You will find the course in the chapter called Linear Voltage Regulators.

So looking at this figure, you can see that all we have between the input and output is a transistor

which is named as Q1, which is also called the pass element.

This means that the voltage across the transistor Q1 is the difference between input and output.

We can rewrite this to solve for the output voltage from this equation.

We can see that the output voltage is regulated by controlling the voltage across this transistor.

The control of Q1 is accomplished.

Using an up and negative feedback.

The OP amp senses the output voltage and compares it to this reference voltage.

If the output voltage is greater than the reference, then Q1 is driven less and the voltage across

it increases.

This causes the output voltage to decrease.

If the output voltage was too low.

Q1 would be driven more to lower the voltage drop across Q1, which would bring the output voltage up.

To see why interrogators are so inefficient, we need to look at the lowered current path.

Because the EMP has high impedance inputs and only driving the base of the transistor, we assume that

no current goes in or out of it.

With the EMP removed, all that is left is a direct path from input output, meaning that the input

current equals the output current.

So this is the equivalent circuit that you've seen before, I guess it's helpful to show you here how

the circuits work so that we avoid any confusion.

The reference voltage is set by the Zenner diode, which has a breakdown voltage of six volts as a result.

Six words will be present on the Nanine been.

This 10 km resistor is used to limit the current flow through the Zehner diode.

The inverting pin of the upper EMP is tied to the output without any sort of wattage divider circuit.

This time we know that the OP amp will try whatever it can to keep both inputs the same wattage.

Right.

How will you do that?

Well, by outputting six point seven volts, the reason why it outputs six point seven words is because

there's a zero point seven volt voltage drop between the base and Daym, right?

So by outputting six point seven volts, zero point seven words will be dropped on the base and meter

and hence six words will be present on the output.

And as a result, the upper amp achieves to keep.

Both inputs are the same voltage.

The AMP is a pretty smart device right now.

I mentioned previously that the input current is equal to the output current and this is actually what

I wanted to show you here.

Let's see if they are indeed equal.

The input current is one ember and the output current is also one ember.

So I hope by seeing this it will avoid any sort of confusion about why these two current are equal.

Well, of course, they are not exactly exactly equal since some current will flow down on this path

to power.

The Zehner Diode, the OP amp has a very high input impedance, meaning that almost no current will

flow down on this path.

The reason why we will assume that the input current is 100 percent equal to the output current is because,

as you will see, it will ease the calculations that we will do further.

We can now use this information to calculate the efficiency and power dissipated by the linear regulator.

The input power is equal to the input voltage times, the input current, the input voltages.

Twenty four worlds and see the current flowing.

This path is one amper the input power becomes twenty four.

What's on the other hand, the output power is equal to output voltage times the output current the

output voltages six words and the current is again one amper so six volts, I mean six watts of power

is dissipated on the load.

The efficiency of the circuit can be calculated by simply dividing the output power with the input power,

which comes to be 25 percent.

How do we calculate the power dissipated by this linear voltage regulator?

It is it if the input power is 24 watts and the output power is six.

What this means that 18 watts of power needs to be dissipated somewhere, right?

For a load of only six.

What the linear regulator is dissipating 18 watts of power.

This is a lot of power to dissipate in such a small package without any heating or air flow.

Typical thermal impedance of 20 degrees Celsius per watt of a linear regulator.

NATO 220 package would result in a temperature rise of 360 degrees Celsius from Zhongxun to ambient.

If no thermal management was applied, this would clearly fail if no measures were taken to reduce the

thermal impedance such as heating or airflow.

The addition of a heating and airflow adds to the size, cost and complexity of the system, which negates

many of the benefits of using a linear regulator.

That is cost and complexity.

For this example here, a heating may be required in addition to airflow.

Now, one of the interesting effects of the input current equaling the output current is that the efficiency

calculation can be simplified to without divided by way.

In from this, we can see that the greater the difference between input and output, the lower the efficiency

and the more power will be dissipated in the regulator, which makes linear regulators undesirable in

cases with large input voltage to output voltage ratios switching.

Regulators, on the other hand, operate much differently than linear regulators.

The main difference is related to how the transistor is controlled.

This figure shows a simplified bank regulator, which is a switching regulator that produces an output

voltage that is lower than the input voltage, the same function as the linear regulator.

In our previous example, the circuit is similar in many ways to the linear regulator.

The main physical difference is a diode and the LC filter on the output.

Like the linear regulator, the switching regulator uses an upper amp and negative feedback to control

a transistor.

The first major difference and the reason that it is called a switching regulator is that the transistor

is driven such that it is either fully on ideally a short circuit or fully off, ideally an open circuit.

This is a big difference compared to the linear regulator where the transistor is controlled linearly

in between fully on and off state.

This transistor is switched on and off at high frequency and creates a square wave of the node connecting

Q1, the one and one which we call the switch node.

The output voltage is regulated by controlling the average value of the switch node voltage for a fixed

frequency operation.

The average value is equal to the time that the switch is on, divided by the period multiplied by the

input voltage.

The ratio of all the time to period is known as the duty ratio.

And in the back regulator is equal to the ratio of output voltage to input voltage, for our example.

This results in a duty ratio of 25 percent to convert twenty four volts input to a six words output.

Now the square is on the switch node feeds into the LC network between the switch node and output,

the AC network is a low base filter and only allows the average or ADC value of the switch node to pass

through to the output.

So by controlling the duty ratio and thus the average voltage at the switch node, the switching converter

can control the output voltage.

This process is known as PRST with modulation or simply BVM to see what the circuit is more efficient

than the linear one.

We can look at the switching regulator in both its on and off states under the same conditions as the

example we had for the Línea regulator in the honor state.

The transistor is driven fully on so that it represents a short.

In this case, current will flow from the input to the output.

But the losses in the transistor are zero watts because the voltage across it is zero where current

is flowing.

The other elements in the current path inductor, capacitor and diode are all ideally lossless.

And so during the on time, ideally no power will be dissipated.

In the off state, the transistor is fully off and represents an open circuit, in this case, the voltage

across the transistor is equal to the input voltage, but no current flow through it because it is an

open circuit.

The power dissipated in the transistor in the state is also zero watt.

And again, the other components are assumed to be lossless.

This shows that in both on and off state, the switching regulator will ideally dissipate no power.

This means that the upper limit of the efficiency is 100 percent, whereas the linear regulator has

an upper limit equal to the out divided by way in.

Another way to look at this is that the input power during the on time is equal to the input voltage

times, the output current, just like the linear regulator.

However, during the off time, no current flows out from the input, so the input power is zero.

What the average amount of power into the regulator or one switching cycle is equal to the input power

during the on time times, the average amount of time that the switch is on, which is the duty ratio.

And because in the case of the converter, the duty ratio is equal to the ratio of output voltage to

input voltage.

The following equation shows that the input power ends up equaling the output power, which means that

the efficiency is 100 percent.

Now, I know in reality, the inductor capacitor and diode in the back regulator are not ideal and will

all incur losses, decreasing the efficiency, the transistor will also not be ideal and have some losses

due to the on state resistance, along with losses due to the switching.

Therefore, the efficiency of switching regulator is dependent on the chosen components and operating

conditions.

On the other hand, the efficiency of a regulator is independent of chosen components, and it's dependent

only on the input and output, what its conditions.

And now let's see briefly the practical implications of poor efficiency, as I mentioned earlier, one

of the main reasons that linnear regulators remain so popular despite their poor efficiency, is their

cost, simplicity and familiarity.

However, as cost previously, the poor efficiency and associated thermal issues can necessitate heating

and airflow, which act against these benefits.

Switching regulators are an efficient alternative.

And while they may be more expensive and complex upfront, they can decrease system costs and complexity

by reducing the need for expensive and bulky thermal management devices to get a feel for just how much

thermal management is required for the example conditions.

This figure shows a side by side comparison of a linear regulator before heating that we force.

Air cooling would allow the same operating temperature range as with off the shelf switching regulator.