What passive component that always remains obscure is the inductor, these are the core like structures

that you find the most powerful turning circuits and it is because of its properties your transformers

work.

The reason why many people do not understand inductors is that they not only alter electric field,

but also the magnetic field around it in this area.

Let us understand the basics of an inductor and demystified so that we will know how and when to use

one in our applications.

So what is an indicator that, you know, there is perhaps the simplest of all electronic components

constructed, much like a resistor, a symbol length of wire that is called up.

However, here, resistless is not a prop. we are looking for.

It is something that happens because of the shape of the wire, a call.

It creates a magnetic field when a karate's pass through it.

This induced magnetic field gives this bit of wire some interesting ethical properties, especially

inductance, which gives these parts their name.

Like many other electronic components, the symbol for inductor is a simplified pictogram of what it

actually looks like.

The lines near the symbol represent the core material, something we will discuss later on, inductor,

as already mentioned, is just a coil of wire.

Before we go into anything else.

Let's ask the question, why a coil?

As we already know, any current carrying conductor generates a magnetic field in the following fashion.

However, if you plug in the value of the current, the formulas, then you will realize that the magnetic

field produced is tiny, almost negligible, unless the currents are impossibly high in order of mega

amps.

So in order to increase the magnetic field created by a specific length of wire, we wrap it into the

form of a coin.

This increases the magnetic field like so.

This ship is also called a solenoid, when a voltage is applied across the terminals of another, the

current flowing creates a magnetic field.

This magnetic field again creates and induced current in the doctor, according to Lance.

The currents do not cancel each other out.

Rather, the induce current actively tries to oppose the incoming current due to the voltage across

the inductor.

And the overall result of this battle is that the current through and inductor cannot change rapidly.

Let's start by looking at the difference between the current waveform, between the two circuits in

both circuits, we can find a simple five Oddisee power supply along with a switch resistor.

And the difference is that here we do not have any doctor and here we have.

And by the way, this is a schematic symbol of an inductor, OK?

Now, first, let's examine how the current looks like within the First Circuit.

So if I close a switch, you can notice that the current instantly rose to 50 millions.

But why 50 minutes?

Because the current is defined by the voltage of the battery and the value of the resistor.

So five volts divided by 100 is, which is the equation of Ohm's Law.

We get a current of 50 millions.

All right.

Nothing fancy here.

Let's move on to the next circuit.

Let's see what this graph here showed us.

Let's close the switch.

And look here, what is happening here?

Well, the coroner didn't instantly rise to 50 millions.

It needed some time until it reached the peak value of, again, 50 Williams, 49, but is the same.

So what can we deduce from this graph where we can deduce that the inductor is opposing the sudden change

of current so it cannot keep up with a sudden change of current?

And we can even say that its initial resistance is high at the beginning.

But as time passes, its resistance is decreasing to zero.

Advisee decreasing to zero, because if the doctor would have any resistance different than zero, the

current would be 50 milligrams, but less.

Right.

We would have to resistance's and more resistance means less current.

But now the current is the same as here.

So this is a clear indication that after a certain time, the resistance of the inductor drops to zero.

We have seen from the simulation that inductors are pretty much useless in this selkowitz, since there's

a constant current flowing and the inductor acts like a bit of wire, they find most of their uses in

86.

It's just like a basters that have capacity reactance and doctors have what's called inductive reactance.

These properties of inductors makes them very useful in AC selkowitz.

However, before we go into that, let's see what are the different types of inductors that exist out

there.