Capacitors have capacitors, inductors have inductance, the formula for calculating the inductance

of a coil of wire is given by this formula where L is the inductance in Aries.

MUE is the permissibility constant that is a coefficient of how easily the magnetic field can be created

in a given medium and is the number of turns A is the area of the coil and L is the length of the coin.

Again, the Harry is a very large unit, so practically inductors are measured in microarrays or millionairess,

which is a thousandth of a very occasionally you you might even find very small inductance is measured

in Nat'l Herries, which are a thousandth of a microarray.

Now the MMU in this equation has some interesting implications.

It suggests that a magnetic field inside inductor can be manipulated like Mattea before.

Sometimes the magnetic field created even by a solenoid, falls short of requirements.

Sometimes that is why in almost all cases you find inductors formed around the core.

Material cores are materials that support the creation of a magnetic field.

They are generally made of iron and its components, such as ferrite, which is an oxide of iron.

You can get a greater magnetic field using a core than without one.

So the first type of inductor is the most basic one, which is áR core inductor.

Like the name suggests, this kind of inverter has no core.

The core material is er since eher has a relatively low permeability.

The inductance offer of a near Koreen doctor is quite low, really about five microarray since they

have a low inductance, the rate of current rise is quite fast for an applied voltage and that makes

them capable of handling high frequencies.

They are mostly used in radio frequency circuits, but don't worry, we will understand this shortly.

The next type of inductor is the iron core inductor.

Irun is perhaps the most recognisable magnetic material, which makes it an ideal choice for enactors.

These take the form of ihram coordinators.

They are usually used for low frequency line filtering since they can be rather beefy and have large

inductance is they are also using audio equipment.

Ironhorse are using Transformers, which we will learn about in the future.

A transformer is similar to this ion doctor.

However, a transformer is made from two columns of wire sitting very close to each other.

The prime use of a transformer is to increase or decrease the input AC voltage, however.

More on this later.

Now, the next set of inductor is the ferrite core inductor ferrite is just a powder of oxides of Eira.

This powder is mixed with an epoxy arisan and molded to form cause around which wires can be wound.

Ferrite core inductors are easily the most recognizable because of their dual gray black color.

They also are very brittle and to break easily.

They are the most widely used kinds of inductors, since the permeability can be finely controlled by

controlling the ratio of ferrite to epoxy in the mix or so.

Actually, there are more types of inductors out there.

I just listed out the most used ones.

As you could see, different types of doctors have different types of core material.

Using these core inductors can have a much greater inductance that otherwise they would have without

one.

And the most use core is the ferrite core, since the permeability can be finely controlled by controlling

the ratio ferrite to EPOXI in the mixed grade in the next course, let's see what happens then.

Multiple inductors are placed either in series or in parallel.

See you there.