In this course, we will learn how an inductor behaves inadequate before we get into the simulation

part.

I want to lay down some theory.

So if you are comfortable with the basic concepts of capacitors, you are well on your way to understanding

inductance, because these dual phenomena are very similar.

They might be described as equal, but opposite.

So a capacitor thors energy in the electric field and inductors towards energy in a magnetic field.

Then a capacitor is connected to a voltage source.

Its voltage gradually increases at its current, gradually decreases.

When an industry is connected to avoid the source, its current gradually increases and its voltage

gradually decreases.

If a competitive circuit is disconnected from a power supply, the capacitor will temporarily maintain

voltage if an inactive circuit is disconnected from a power supply.

The inductor will temporarily maintain current.

Another way of saying that is that capacitors resist changes in wattage and enactors resist changes

in current.

Now with these remarks.

Let's go to our simulator.

And here we are right now, since the switch is open, no current flows in the circuit, the power source

we are using is a five world power source and we have a three Harry Potter and the resistor here, which

is necessary to limit the current flow once the switch is closed.

So let me slow down the simulation speed a little bit and then let's close the switch, what we can

notice that right at the beginning, the voltage drop across the inductor is five words, while the

current is zero.

This is why we say that inductors try to resist sudden changes in current.

The inductor just cannot change rapidly in current.

And this is exactly the opposite behavior of capacitors where the current in the beginning is very high,

while the voltage across it is zero.

That's why we say that capacitors resist changes in voltage since they cannot change in voltage very

fast.

Now, as time passes, the voltage across the inverter decreases, allowing the flow of current to slowly

increase until the conductor acts just like a piece of wire, it's like it wouldn't be even here.

So over time, when the voltage across the inductor drops, current flows freely across it.

So when a voltage is applied across the two terminals of any doctor, the current flowing creates a

magnetic field around it.

This magnetic field creates an induced current in the inductor.

So unlike Absa's that store charge by creating an electric field between its two plates and inductors

towards charge by creating this magnetic field around it.

Once we hit the switch, all the energy that was stored inside of Inductor is released, but notice

that the direction of current hasn't changed.

Like in the case of capacitor, when we had a capacitor here, the charge that was released went in

the opposite direction of the charging direction.

The definition of a doctor is that it resists any change in current.

It always tries to make current go in the same direction and the same intensity.

Of course, the intensity of current will slowly fade away.

Sees in real world traces have some resistance.

Also, we have a resistance here that will dissipate power.

Hence the current slowly decreases back to zero.

But notice something interesting here.

When the current is switched off, the magnetic field is now collapses.

Instead of growing as it did, a switch on this collapsing magnetic field now returns its energy into

the inductor coil and induces a voltage, which in engineering terms is called back M.F. into the doctor.

But because the change in magnetic field strength is in the opposite direction to the expanding field,

a switch on the induced voltage is now in the opposite polarity.

As shown here, the induced back EMF now opposes the reduction current cause by switch off.

Slowing down the decay of current earths can be seen here.

This rapid collapse of the magnetic field as the switch opens can cause very large voltage spikes because

the amount of voltage induced is dependent on the rate of change of the magnetic field.

Here in the simulator, the peak voltage is negative five words.

However, in real life, this could be much, much greater, possibly destroying other components that

are connected to it.

So let's talk about this back here, Buffi.

More detail in the next course, because this is something that you must be aware of.