Hello, welcome back.

So in a circuit which contains inductance, as well as a resistance such as the one shown here, when

the switch is closed, the current does not rise immediately to its steady state value, but rises in

exponential fashion.

This is due to the fact that the Bakiyev is greeted by the changing current flow through the inductor.

This, Becky, IMF has an amplitude which is proportional to the rate of change of current, which means

that the faster the rate of change, the greater the bank, IMF and a polarity which opposes the change

in current in the inductor that caused it.

Initially, the bank IMF is produced because the changing current in the inductor causes a changing

magnetic field around it, and the changing magnetic field causes internal and IMF to be induced back

into the inductor.

This process is called self induction now because the Bakiyev opposes the rapid change in current taking

place in the inductor, the rate of change of current, it's reduced and what would be a vertical line

on the graph becomes a slope.

The rate of change of current through the inductor is now less so.

A smaller Vecchia MW is produced.

This allows the current to increase further.

The relationship between the changing current and Bekim produces a curve which always follows a mathematical

law to produce a particular shape of curve that is an exponential curve.

When the switch is open, the current decays in a similar exponential manner towards zero.

Now, looking at this figure, which shows the voltage across the doctor, we can see that a switch

on the voltage immediately rises to a maximum value.

This is because when voltage is applied to the circuit, little or no current is flowing because the

inductor is seen for a very short time or so.

Very high resistance due to the Becky ECMWF effect caused by the rapidly changing magnetic field around

the inductor inducing avoided, which is called GMF, back into the inductor, which is in the opposite

polarity to the applied voltage from the supply, and so initially opposes the increasing current through

the inductor because of this opposition caused by the Mbeki.

If it appears initially that the inductor has a very high resistance and so the full supply shortages

develop across the inductor current through the inductor begins to build.

However, the rate of change of the magnetic field reduces the opposition due to the back GMF reduces

and apparent resistance of the inductor force to a low value.

And as a result, the voltage across the inductor decreases until a point is reached where the whole

of the battery voltage is being developed.

Across the resistor are the voltage or potential difference.

Across the inductor is practically zero and energy is now stored in the magnetic field around the inductor.

However, when the current is switched off, the magnetic field is now collapses.

Instead of growing as it did, a switch on this collapsing magnetic field now returned its energy into

the outer coil and induces a voltage, which is called Uzbeki IMF into the inductor.

But because the changing magnetic field strength is in the opposite direction to the expanding field,

a switch on the induced voltage is now in the opposite polarity.

As shown here, the rapid collapse of the magnetic field on the switch opens can cause very large majority

spikes because the amount of voltage induced is dependent on the rate of change of the magnetic field.

The high voltage is produced can lead to working with a switch contacts as the voltage jumps the gap

between the contacts.

These large whitespace can also damage other components in a circuit, especially semiconductors.

So care must be taken in the design of circuits containing inductors or driving inductive loads to prevent

these spikes.

So let me show you a practical example of when this Becky HMF introduces problems, and I will show

you as well how to prevent it.

First, let's take a look at the D.C. matter, every D.C. matter has five basic parts the Scheft brushes,

stator, magnets, oratorical and a commentator in the most common D.C. matters.

An external magnetic field is produced by high strength permanent magnets.

The Roder, together with the Scheft and the attached commentator, rotates with respect to the stator.

The Roter consist of Whiting's generally on a core and the way things are electrically connected to

the commutator.

So why am I showing this to you?

Because I want you to realize that when you are dealing with matters, we are in fact dealing with inductors.

The symbol of a D.C. matter is this one, but for this occasion only, let's replace this with the symbol

of an inductor.

And don't worry, we won't go wrong by doing this at all.

So let's create a circuit so that we can drive this DC matter.

Somehow we need a device or a circuit that can turn on and off.

This mother, using a small electrical signal for this, will use an electrical component called the

transistor.

Using the transistor, we can drive the motor if a high current using a small electrical signal that

might come from an integrated circuit.

For example, of course, in the simulator, we will use a switch on the base of the transistor to simulate

this behavior.

And here we are.

So I know we haven't learned about transistors yet.

However, this is a very good example to show you that Becky PMF can cause really big problems.

So how does a transistor work, you might ask?

I won't go into detail because that would go beyond the scope of this lecture.

But why do you have to know for the moment is that since we have an NPN transistor here, the transistor

will allow current to flow from 20 volts to ground if there's around zero point seven walls between

the base and emitter of the transistor.

So Transistor has three legs.

This is the base.

This is the meter.

And finally, the collector current will flow from collector to ammeter when the base is with zero point

seven walls higher than the emitter.

The Šemeta leg, as you can see, is connected to ground, so three point three words on the base is

more than enough.

However, I have chosen three point three words because most microcontrollers like Arduino, for example,

can output either three point three words or five words.

This resistor here is used to limit the current flow so that we won't create a short circuit between

this three point three words and ground.

Don't worry, if you don't understand transistors yet, you can always come back once you learn about

them.

So the goal of this circuit is to turn on and off for this matter here.

How do we turn it on?

By turning on the transistor first.

So when I close the switch, current will flow through the matter and it starts spinning.

What we are interested in here is the voltage that is present on the collector of the transistor.

Unfortunately, there is a problem with the simulator here and the voltage on the collector keeps oscillating

between two values.

However, normally there would be a constant voltage of 20 volts across Collector and Emminger.

So if I take this motor out for a second.

And connect these directly, you can see that 20 voltage dropped across the collector and a meter of

the transistor, the voltage coming from the power source must be dropped somewhere until it reaches

ground, which is always zero volts.

Right.

So the whole world will be dropped across the transistor.

We know that over time, the voltage drop across the inductor decreases to zero.

So practically, there should be 20 volts here.

And I forgot to mention that if you want to check the voltage, we respect ground on that piece of wire,

just double click on it and click show voltage.

So everything is good, the matter is spinning, and there's 20 words on the collector of the transistor

now let's suppose you want to turn it off.

You open the switch and notice the back here in action, the voltage on the collector suddenly rose

to negative one hundred and two kilowatts.

There is no transistor that could handle this voltage on its collector.

So once you turn the mother off, you can as well throw out the transistor because you have blown it

up in real life.

The voltage here again wouldn't oscillate like here.

There would be a huge negative spiral that would instantly blow up this transistor.

So what can we do to protect our transistor so that we can safely turn off the mother?

Well, Becky, PMF cannot be prevented, but it can be controlled in suppressing the IMF.

The objective is to prevent the very high wattages and dissipate the stored energy in a controlled way.

There are a number of ways to do this and we will look at one of the most common methods used.

So the most common method is to use a flyback diode in parallel with the inductor.

So there are more types of diodes that we will learn about in the future.

For now, just remember that Frybread diodes are used for protection against these back GMF.

What is Pich?

You can look at it as a regular diode.

Now the basic idea behind the use of a fibre diode is to provide an alternative path for the inductor

for its current to flow.

What's important to remember is that the diode is connected in reverse bias when the switch is closed

and as a result, the diode doesn't impact the operation of the rest of the circuit when the matter

is spinning.

But when the switch is opened, the change in polarity of the inductor will make diode to place in forward

bias.

So when the switch is open, the inductor will reverse its polarity and the diode will be forward.

Biased, white, forward, biased.

The diode will allow current to flow through anticipate at the rate the end of their wants.

So as you can see, the addition of a diode gives a path for the current to flow.

Since diodes have almost no resistance, then for bias, the inductor only has to make a very small

voltage drop to get the correct amount of current to flow.

This prevents the switching device from working or being damaged.

It is important to note that the diode polarity must be opposite of the power supply and this ensures

that when the switch is closed, the diode we have no effect on the circuit, essentially looking like

an open circuit.

This also means that when the switch is open, the diode polarity will match the inductors, reversed

polarity and prevent a serious what is pich?