Then AC voltage is applied to resistor, both the voltage and current are in phase with each other.

This means that as the voltage increases, so does the current and then the voltage starts decreasing,

so does the current.

So let's see the current voltage graph that AC voltages passing through and inductor.

And here we are this year shows the response of any doctor who had driven by alternating current, the

current yellow and vortigern green across the doctor are shown in this scope here.

So notice that voltage and current are not in phase the current yellow legs of voltage.

Actually, let me slow down the simulation a little bit.

So current legs, the voltage.

This means that their current starts to flow, the indata resisted and voltage across the daughter is

at maximum.

So when the voltage is at maximum, the current is zero.

As the cycle progresses, the inductor voltage goes to zero, allowing current to reach its peak value.

If you recall there, we had a DC power source here.

The current reached the maximum value than the voltage across.

The doctor was basically zero.

So we have seen in the previous simulation that that AC is applied to only doctor voltage and current

are not in phase, so not there creates a phase shift between the two so that the voltage will lead

the current by 90 degree.

Or we can say that the current lags the voltage by 90 degree.

So notice that both capacitors as well as inductors introduce a fair shift between voltage and current,

these new components are said to be reactive components.

So a component is said to be reactive.

If it tries to resist a change in voltage or current in a circuit, a capacitor will try to resist changes

in voltage while an inductor tries to resist changes in current.

In order to resist a change in current voltage, the component resisting must be able to store at least

part of the energy applied.

The components capable of doing this are, as I said, the capacitor which stores energy in the form

of voltage, and the inverter which stores energy in the form of current.

These two reactive components that are placed in an AC circuit will create a phase shift between voltage

and current.

Both components will create a phase shift of 90 degrees.

However, in a purely capacity circuit, the voltage lags current by 90 degree, while in a purely inactive

circuit, current lags the voltage by 90 degree.