In the previous course, we have seen that inductors introduce a phase shift of 90 degrees between voltage

and current.

Now then we deal with AC signals.

It's not only the resistor that will limit the current flow, but the inductor as well.

So how can an inductor limit the current flow?

Well, this is where inductive reactance comes into play.

Any doctor resists a changing current as a result of Laszlo, the degree to which the doctor impedes

the flow of current is due to its inductive reactants.

We have already talked about capacity reactance, right where this inductive reactance is very similar

to capacity reactors in the sense that bouffe will limit the current flow in the circuit.

And both are measured in omes.

However, they increase and decrease in the opposite way, meaning that for high frequencies the capacity

reactance is low while the inactive reactance is high.

The formula for calculating the inactive reactants is this one.

So innovative reactors is equal to two times F, where F is the frequency of the signal passing through

it times inductance, which is the reluctance of the inductor measured in Herries, you can see, according

to this formula, how inductive those changes to the frequency of the signal input into it, it has

a direct relationship with the frequency of that signal passing through it.

So the higher the frequency of the signal, the higher the value of the reactors, the lower the frequency

of the signal, the lower the value of the reactors.

It changes in the exact opposite way compared to capacity reactors.

So based on this graph, we can see that the high frequency signal is inductors offer a lot of resistance

so that high frequency signals are essentially blocked from passing through an inductor.

The frequency of the signal passing through an end of the decreases.

The inductor offers less and less resistance so that lower frequency signals can pass through easier.

We can't preserve the effect of very low and very high frequencies on the reactors of a pure AC nocturnes

as follows.

Where the frequency is zero hertz, which is simply a DC voltage, so this is what it is passing through

an inductor, the inductive reactors is essentially zero.

Sunit Inductor acts like a piece of wire.

However, if the frequency of the signal would be infinite, the inductor would oppose any current flow

in the circuit, since its resistance would be infinite.

Now, using the INDUCTIVELY formula, we will now go through an example to show how the formula is used

to compute actually doctor impedance values.

So let's say we have a circuit referring doctor of 30 million, very different AC current of 10 kilohertz

frequency, what we the directors of the doctor, be for the circuit.

So working it out and using this formula, we compute the value of an inductive reactants to be duppy

times 10 kilohertz times 30 miliary, which will be around one thousand eight hundred eighty five owns.

This value means that any doctor of 30 militari before that includes a single passing through it.

We have an impedance or a distance of one thousand eight hundred eighty five ohms.

For one kilohertz signal, the inactive reactors will be just one hundred eighty eight ohms in the next

course, let's see how this endarterectomy effects the current flow in anesthesia.

Could see you there.