Here are three secrets, which are identical, except for the frequency of the source in the first year

with the frequency of the AC source is 30 hertz and the maximum current flow is twenty three point three

millions in the Second Circuit.

The frequency is 80 hertz and the maximum current is seventeen point six millions in the last circuit.

The frequency is the highest compared to the other two and the current is the lowest.

So the main takeaway of this simulation is that inductors are able to pass lower frequencies more easily

than higher ones because they oppose changes in current and low frequency, AC has more gradual changes,

giving the doctor a chance to adjust so the higher frequency of the bottom will result in a lower current.

So basically, that was it.

However, I think that it will be a good practice if you try to calculate the maximum current flowing

in one of the circuit.

So if you remember back then we had capacitors here.

We measured the current rmx for the last circuit.

So let's not calculate the current rmx again, but the maximum current that is displayed already for

us.

We will pick the Lussier with a gun and see why the simulator measures nine point two million.

Which is the peak value of the current sinusoidal waveform.

In order to calculate the maximum current flow, we have to calculate first the equivalent impedance

of the circuit, the equivalent or total impedance is the same thing, and it's not does that impedance

is measured in arms and it's the total opposition that the circuit presents to alternating current.

So someone would say that the total opposition to current flow is dualisms plus the inductive reactants

at this particular frequency.

And he wouldn't be very wrong.

However, we cannot add them up like this because that would be too easy.

The problem is that the inductor causes a phase shift between current and voltage, and because of that,

resistance and reactors cannot be simply added up to give impedance.

Instead, they must be added as vectors.

And I have already shown this triangle to you.

So again, if you want to add up the resistance with the reactance, you must add them up as vectors.

Based on this triangle vector, the impedance is square root of all of the power of two plus X or the

power of two, where X is equal to inductive reactants minus capacity reactants.

Since we don't have any capacity reactants in the circuit.

The final equal, I mean, the final equation will be this one.

The inductive reactors of the 400 million Marine doctor at the frequency of 200 hertz is around 500.

And to Ohmes now we can plug this value into the impedance formula and we will get a total impedance

of five hundred and forty point three ohms.

Great.

Now, how do we calculate the maximum current flow?

There you see, we wanted to avoid calculating current arms, but in the end it will be necessary do

so.

The peak current is equal to irony's Times Square root of two, where I Oremus, as you already know,

is equal to we are a..

Divided by the total impedance we are.

And this is very easy to calculate since we already know the peak value of the signal, which is five

points.

So we are a mess is equal to peak voltage divided by square root of two, which will be equal to three

point fifty three mold's.

Now, let's plug this value into current R.A. so items will be equal to three point fifty three, divided

by five hundred forty point three ohms, which will give us around six point five million.

So let's go back to our simulator and check if it is indeed six point five millions.

So, right, click on the third graph, go to properties, make sure to show current IDs checked and

then check show rmx error rate.

The simulator is measuring around six point four millions, which is very close to what we have obtained,

the fingers that we have rounded up some values throughout the calculations.

But yeah, we were not wrong.

Now that we know the current Oremus calculating the current is a piece of cake.

We only have to multiply this six point five millions with square root of two, which will give us a

peak current or maximum current whatever of around nine point two million, which is the same with what

the simulator is measuring for us.