Now that we have covered resistors, inductors and capacitors, let's take a look at these three circuits

that have the same AC source.

However, the three AC sources are driving three different circuits in this graph below with yellow

is shown, the current passing through the inductor with red is shown the current through the resistor

in the middle and with orange the current through the capacitor.

What's interesting here to note is that even though the three circuits are different, all the three

AC power sources are driving the same impedance.

So the current is exactly the same in each of the circuits since the aurora impedance of the three circuits

are identical, we all know how to calculate the impedance of an RC and RF circuit, right?

The impetus to calculate the aurora impedance of an error circuit is this one.

And since I have already made the calculations first, of course, you have to calculate the inductive

reactants for 80 hertz and then we plug in the values and you get an impedance of how much?

Well, it's not very hard to guess it will be 200 owns this impedance has to match with the impetus

of the Second Circuit, otherwise the current in the two circuits would be different, right?

The overall impetus of the Second Circuit is easy to find out, since there's no Doctor Oracabessa representing

the circuit, we have only one resistor, so the total impedance of the circuit will simply be discarded

harridans.

The total impedance of the Third Circuit will be 200 of the smell.

Otherwise, the current flowing here would be different.

Now, what we can learn from this simulation, we could learn that whatever your circuit looks like,

the circuit will have a total impedance.

The total impedance will define how much current will flow in the circuit.

In optronics, you will often hear about impedance, especially about input and output impedance of

a circuit.

We will have a dedicated chapter for that, but briefly put in place of a circuit refers to the impedance

with the power supply or the signal sees then enters the circuit.

So this lockyear could be anything.

And I see another circuit, whatever, if it's the same with it will have an input impedance.

If you know the input impetus of the circuit you are driving with your signal, you will know how much

current the circuit will sync by thinking.

I mean how much current the circuit you are driving will require from your power source.

Now, why is this equation important to remember, because no matter how complex your circuit is, you

can always reduce it using Tavernese law and other methods to a circuit that has only one equivalent

resistor, one equivalent inductor and one equivalent capacitor, if there is any capacity.

Of course, once the circuit is reduced, you can't use this formula to calculate the total impedance

of the circuit.