Consider an RACC liquid in which a resistor inductor and capacitor are connected in a series across

the AC water supply.

This series, Oracy Circuit, has a distinguishing property of resonating at a specific frequency called

resonant frequency.

So let me explain.

It is a liquid containing inductor and capacitor.

The energy is stored in two different ways.

First, and current flows in another, energy gets stored in a magnetic field.

Second, when a person is charged, energy gets stored in static electric field.

The magnetic field in the doctor is built by the current, which is provided by the discharging capacitor.

Similarly, the capacitor is charged by the current produce by collapsing the magnetic field of doctor.

And this process continues on and on, causing electrical energy to oscillate between the magnetic field

and the electric field.

In some cases, a certain frequency called resonant frequency, the inductive reactor.

So the circuit becomes equal to capacity reactants, which causes the electrical energy to oscillate

between the electric field of the capacitor and magnetic field of the inductor.

This forms a harmonic oscillator for current.

So if you find it difficult to understand, don't worry, because we will do a simulation soon now.

So how do we find out the frequency, that particular frequency that the circuit starts resonating?

First, we know that inductive reactors is directly proportional to frequency.

This means that the higher the frequency, the higher the inductive reactors.

On the other hand, the capacity of reactors is inversely proportional to frequency.

As the frequency increases, capacity of reactors decreases the plot of the reactor size versus frequencies

shown here based on these two graphs.

It can't be concluded that the endarterectomy is directly proportional to the frequency and capacity

of reactors is inversely proportional to frequency.

That is a low frequency.

Inductive reactants is low and capacity reactors is high.

But there must be a frequency where the value of inductive reactors becomes equal to capacity reactors.

So now if you plot a single graph of inductive reactors versus the frequency and capacity, reactants

versus frequency, then there must occur a point where these two graphs caught each other.

At that point of intersection, the inductive and capacity reactors becomes equal, and the frequency

at which these two reactors become equal is called resonant frequency.

A resonant frequency endarterectomy is equal to capacity.

Reactance frequency or F in this equation is the resonant frequency and it can be calculated as follows.

So there is a frequency is equal to one or two p times square root of inductance times capacitance.

So what's interesting here are the resonant frequencies that this particular frequency that you reactance

is become equal and cancel each other out.

So resonant series is circuit.

The opposition to the flow of current is due to resistance only at resonance, the total impedance of

serious Orestis here, which is equal to resistance.

Ah, so you might say, what's the big deal?

Well, the thing is that as resonance, the circuit acts purely as a resistive circuit, causing a large

amount of coral to circulate through the circuit.

If it happens that you have an art circuit and somehow the circuit starts resonating, you can destroy

some components around due to the high current that circulate in the circuit.

At Resonance in a series Oreste Circuit, both inductive acrobats, directors cancel each other, and

we know that in series circuit, the current flowing through all the elements is seen same.

So the voltage across inductor and capacitor is equal in magnitude and opposite in direction, and thereby

they cancel each other.

So in a series resonant circuit, voltage across resistor is equal to supply voltage and the current

will be equal to voltage divided by impedance.

But resonance current will be equal to voltage divided by R, and therefore the current at resonant

frequency is maximum.

Now let's head to our simulator.

And here we are, as you can see, we have three identical selkowitz, only the frequency of the AC

source differs, not very much, just slightly.

The middle one is being driven by the resonance frequency and thus you can see the peak voltage in the

middle.

Circuit is very high because it is resonating with the source.

So the top one is being driven at a slightly lower frequency and the bottom one has a slightly higher

frequency.

If you want to find out the resonance frequency of these RACC, every circuit, you can use this formula.

And if you do the math, you will get exactly forty one point one hertz.

Notice that this particular frequency, the peak voltage, is around one hundred twenty eight points,

which is much higher than the voltage at the other two circuits, which is quite interesting since only

the frequency of the AC source differs slightly.

On the other hand, the current should be firewalled, divided by 10 ohms, which is five hundred millions.

And if you check it.

Indeed, it's around five hundred millions, so that currently the first year is only 59 millions while

in the Third Circuit, one hundred millions.

So there is quite a big difference between the voltage and current resonant frequency.

If you don't pay attention, you could aswell destroy your circuit and you don't necessarily need an

here in real world.

Even Treacy's have some small, tiny nocturnes and that tiny inductance with the capacitor you see could

start resonating, which is something very undesirable.