Welcome back.

In the previous chorus, we've seen that the main difference between the pastor and the doctor is that

pastor opposes the change in wordage.

What any doctor opposes the changing current.

Furthermore, a pastor stores energy in the form of an electric field while in other stores energy in

the form of magnetic field.

All right.

But my question to you is the following DC or AC current is required to generate these magnetic fields

around a doctor, or maybe both will generate it.

And what happens when there is another doctor close to the doctor that is generating the magnetic field?

In this course?

We will answer to these questions and build some circuits for a better understanding.

So let's get started on.

All right.

Have you ever wondered where the electricity comes from and how is it distributed so that we can increase

it in your house?

Let's have a quick look at the power transmission process.

So electricity is generated at power plants and moves through a Kabulov system sometimes called US grid

of electricity in power stations.

Large spinning turbines generate electricity powered by wind, coal, natural gas or water.

When it is generated at the power station, electrical energy will typically be anywhere between 11

and 33 kilowatts before it is sent to distribution centers.

We are transmission lines.

It is set up using a transformer to a voltage level that can be anywhere between 100 and 700 kilowatts

or more, depending on the distance that it needs to be transmitted.

The longer the distance, the higher the voltage level.

The reason electrical power is stepped up to these voltage levels is to make it more efficient by reducing

the eye squared or losses that take place where power is transmitted.

When voltage is stepped up, the current reduces relative to the voltage so that power remains constant

is reducing these eyes squared our losses.

By the way, in the next course we will do an experiment with long distance power transmission.

So we understand clearly why we have to increase the voltage to such high levels.

So again, the electrical current is said to transformers, which increase the voltage so the power

can be pushed over long distances.

The electrical charge is then carried by transmission lines held up by large towers which stretch across

huge distances.

Then Ertugrul Power reaches a receiving station, the voltages stepped back down at what is typically

between 33 and 66 kilowatts saw from the transmission lines, the city reaches a substation where the

voltage is lowered so it can be sent on a smaller power lines.

The electricity is then sent to distribution lines to your neighborhood.

Smaller transformers, lower the voltage again so that the power is safe to use in our homes.

The electricity connects to your house, where it passes through a meter, which measures the amount

of electricity you use.

Finally, the ability to travel through wires inside the walls to the outlet which is in your house

ready to power your devices.

So you might wonder, why am I explaining this to you?

Because in this course we talk about these transformers, which can increase or decrease the voltage.

So how does a transformer work?

I would be very direct with you.

A transformer is made of two inductors that are wired across a core.

As you can see in this image.

If you look at the electrical symbol of the transformer, you will see two inductors that are face to

face, very close to each other and they do not touch a transformer is based on a very simple fact,

about 50.

When a fluctuating electric current flows through a wire or in doctor, same thing, it generates a

magnetic field, the strength of the magnetism is directly related to the size of the earth, the current.

Then a magnetic field fluctuates around a piece of wire, it generates an electric current in the wire.

So if you put a second coil of wire next to the first one cent, a fluctuating electric current into

the first coil, we will create an electric current in the second wire.

The current in the first coil is usually called the primary current and the current in the second wire

is the secondary current.

What we have done here is that we've passed electric current to empty space for one wire to another.

Interesting, isn't it?

This is called electromagnetic induction because the current in the first quarter causes or induces

a current in the second coil.

We can't make electrical energy pass more efficiently from one coil to the other by wrapping them around.

The soft ironbar sometimes called the core to make a call a wire.

We simply call the wire around the two loops e for the second coil has the same number of turns as the

first coil.

The current in the second coil will be we're actually the same size as the one in the first coil.

But if we have more or fewer turns in a second quarter, we can make the secondary current and voltage

bigger or smaller than the primary current voltage.

One important thing to note here is that this trick works only if this electric current is fluctuating

its own weight.

In other words, you have to use a type of constantly reversing electricity, which is called us how

alternating current transformers do not work with the current, where a steady current constantly flows

in the same direction.

We will also check this in the simulator soon.

All right, so let's talk about the first type of transformer, which is step down transformer, if

the first coil has more turns than the second coil, the secondary voltage is smaller than the primary

voltage.

This is called the step down transformer.

If the second coil has half as many turns as the first coil, the secondary voltage will be half the

size of the primary voltage.

If the second coil has one tenth as many turns, it has one tenth the voltage.

In general, secondary voltage divided by the primary voltage is equal to the number of 30 secondary,

which is divided by the number of 13 primary using this equation.

And you can basically calculate the number of turns needed for your desired output voltage.

However, the current is transformed the opposite way increase in size in a step down transformer.

What I mean by that, the secondary current divided by the primary quadrant is equal to the number of

turns in primary divided by the number of the secondary.

So transformer with one hundred calls in the primary and the ten coils in the secondary, we reduce

the voltage by a factor of ten, but multiply the current by a factor of ten.

At the same time, the power in an electric current is equal to the current times the voltage.

So this is very important aspect to remember and understand.

The power of the secondary is theoretically the same as the power and the primary.

Why?

Because transformer is not the magical component that can generate more power than the input.

If the voltage on the secondary is higher than on the primary, it means that the current of the secondary

has to be lower than on the primary so that the power remains equal on both sides.

In reality, there is some loss of power between the primary and secondary because some of the magnetic

flux leaks out of the core.

Some energy is lost because the core heats up and so on.

The other type of transformer is a step up transformer, reversing the situation.

We can't make a step up transformer that boosts a low voltage into a high one this time.

We have more on the secondary core.

Then on the primary, it's still true that secondary voltage divided by primary voltage is equal to

the number of thirty secondary divided by number of 13 primary and secondary Corot divided by primary

current is equal to the number of thirty primary divided by number of thirteen secondary in a step up

transformer.

We use mortars in a secondary down in the primary to get the bigger secondary voltage and the smaller

secondary current.

Considering both step down and step up transformers.

You can see it's a general rule that the coil with the motors has the highest voltage, while the core

with the few Westerners has the highest car.

And the third type of transformer is called isolation transformer.

An isolation transformer has the same number of terms in the primary as a secondary.

So the voltage on the secondary is the same as on the primary.

Well, this is not a really useful transformer, you might say, isn't it?

But the strong, they are used for purposes like breaking the circuit into a primary and secondary.

So they are current and always can get through.

It can prevent capacitors build up by high frequency noise.

It also prevents unconditional ground connection between the primary and the secondary and use prevents

high voltage discharge.

It can provide galvanic insulation to the electrical system.

Any transformer which is used to transfer signals or power is isolation because the primary secondary

is not connected by conductors.

Instead of that, it is done by induction.

Now let's try to simulate a step down, a step up and an isolation transformer in the simulator or at.

This shows a simple, transformative liquid, as you mentioned, a transformer is a device used to transfer

physical energy from one side to another using decoys that are copper deductively.

This transformer has a ratio of one to one, which means that the primary and the secondary had the

same number of turns of wire.

Hence the voltage on the secondary will be the same as on the primary, isn't it?

Now, if we want to make a step down transformer, then the first court needs to have more terms than

the second coil.

For example, if we want to step down the voltage from d'Amboise to fireballs, then the ratio has to

be one to zero by five.

Since the ratio now is one to zero point five, DARPA's voltage is half of the input voltage, if we

want to double the input voltage from 10 to 20 volts, then the ratio has to be one to two.

All right.

So the voltage is 20 volt and the current is around 20 millions.

Why?

Because twenty volts divided by one km, which in this case represents the load, is equal to 20 minutes.

So now what happens if there's a DC voltage source instead of an AC?

As you can see, the 10 world DC current is not able to induce any current to the secondary way because

the magnetic field on the primary is only generated when a fluctuating electric current flows through

the cord.

So the easy current will never induce any current or voltage on the secondary because it doesn't fluctuate.