Hello and welcome back.

So in the previous course, we talked about the path that the electricity takes from the power plant

that generates diversity all the way to your house.

The power plant and the house are situated very far from each other.

And in order to transport the city over this long distance, George Westinghouse developed a device

called the Transformer.

The transformer allows the electricity to be efficiently transmitted over long distances.

This made it possible to supply electricity to homes and businesses located far from the electric generating

plant.

So the electricity produced by a generating plant travels along cables to Wal-Mart, which changes electricity

from low voltage to high voltage.

And you mentioned in the previous cause that electricity can be moved long distances more efficiently

using high voltage.

But why is that?

Well, in this course, we'll find it out on.

As you can see, this image transmission lines are used to carry electricity to a substation.

Substations have transformers that change the high voltage electricity into lower voltage electricity

from the substation, distribution lines to homes, offices and factories, which require low voltage

electricity.

As the electricity flows down the metal wire, the electrons that carry its energy jigger through the

metal structure, bashing and crashing about and generally wasting energy like a Raleigh schoolchildren

running down a corridor.

And that's why wires get hot when electricity flows through them.

Something that's very useful in the poster is right.

It turns out that the higher the voltage electricity you use and the lower the current, the less energy

is wasted in this way.

So early power transmission networks should be efficient, safe and at the same time economical.

Keeping this in mind, power is transmitted at high voltage for the following reasons.

The first one is to reduce power losses.

The second one is to reduce power transmission costs and third, to improve the efficiency of power

transmission.

So power losses in transmission towers is proportional to the current flowing through it.

The transmission lines are normally made of copper, aluminum or its alloys.

The resistance of transmission lines itself contribute the most to the power loss.

The power loss in the light due to resistance is called copper loss or ice grade or loss.

As you can see from this equation, the lesson, the current lesson will be the power loss has during

power transmission.

The voltage is stepped up to reduce current for transmitting the same amount of power to distance.

The power loss will be more widely transmitted at a lower voltage.

So why don't we take an example?

Let us calculate power.

Less than 100 kilowatts of power is transmitted to one kilometer at a different voltage levels.

For instance, let us assume that the conductor offers a resistance of one ohm to the flow of current.

All right, so the first case is when it is transmitted at 1000 volts, the current through the conductor

is equal to power, divided by voltage, which is equal to 100 kilowatts, divided by 1000 volts.

So we will get a current of 100 dampers.

The copper lost in the conductor is a squared or which is equal to 100 or the power of two times one,

which is equal to ten thousand watts or ten kilowatts.

All right.

So the next case is when it is transmitted at 10000 volts, the current through the conductor is equal

to again power divided by voltage, which will be equal to 100 kilowatts, divided by 10000 volts this

time.

And we will get the current of 10 amperes.

The copper lines in the conductor is equal again to a squared or which will be equal to ten of the power

of two times one, which will be equal to 100 watts or zero point one kilowatts.

It can be noted that the power loss ten thousand words is much lesser than at one thousand words hands

for delivering the same amount of power from the power station to the load.

The station power loss is much less when it is transmitted at higher voltage.

All right, here we have an example of a long distance power transmission showing the value of using

high voltages, the generator at left generates 120 words.

And here we have a transformer with a ratio of one to 1000, which means that if I stop the simulator,

we can notice that the output voltages 1000 times higher than the input voltage.

This transformer steps up the voltage, but greatly reduces the current rate.

We talked about this in the previous course.

So the resistance of the transmission lines is stimulated by these two 500 ohms resistors.

A transformer with a ratio of one to zero point zero zero one brings the voltage down to the original

value.

The graph on the lower that shows that the power transmitted to the load for comparison, the same set

up without transformers is shown at the bottom.

The input voltage is again 120 miles and the resistance of the wires are 510 and 500 ohms respectively.

Just like here on the top, the resistors losses are much higher and the transmitted power which is

shown at the lower right, is much lower.

So although both circuits had the same power sources, the same load as well, we can notice that by

stepping up the voltage and stepping down, we managed to carry much more power from the source.

The load which result that the circuit on top is far more efficient than the circuit on the bottom.