Hello and welcome back to new chapter here.

We will analyze some circuits that are highly dependent on transistors so that you guys will get a good

handle on how transistors work.

We will start by analyzing some circuits called us multi vibrators.

Well, multi vibrators are widely used in electronics, and it is a circuit which is used to implement

the two state devices like relaxation, oscillator timers and flipflops.

Here, the two states refers to the two wattage levels of the output, like, for example, zero volts

and five words.

Many times the voltage levels are also represented as either logic high and logic low.

The multi vibrators can be classified into three categories, namely stable, more stable and be stable.

In this course, we will try to demystify how unstable multi vibrator works.

So let's get started.

On

unstable circuit consists of two transistors, both switching their operational mode.

Alternatively, from saturation to cut off, then from cut off to separation by definition, unstable

circuits.

That one that oscillates between two states high and low, over and over and over again indefinitely.

It never holds one state.

It consistently cycles from high to low, high to low repeatedly.

Therefore, it produces a square waveform signal as output.

So again, the stable multi vibrator does not remain stable in any of the two states, and the output

of the multi vibrator continuously changes between the two states.

So imagine how cool the circuit is.

Your power, the circuit with DC and it produces a square wave using just a few components.

Moreover, the square width can even be controlled by changing the value of the RC time constant.

So let's start from the beginning and let's see how this works.

First, let's try to understand how this works.

Looking at the schematic of the circuit and at the end we will try to simulate it.

Or if you feel like skip to the simulation part to see what's going on and then come back here.

So where shall we start?

Let's start by placing the DC power supply on top of it.

Now, what happens?

Well, what happens is that one transistor will be driven to saturation, meaning that it will be fully

turned on right then a transistor is exaggeration of the creator of current is not equal anymore to

be times based current.

Right.

And we already know this.

So while this Q1 is fully turned on, Q2 will be in cutoff mode, so it won't conduct current at all

during this time.

Capacitor C2 is charging to VXI through resistor R Q2 is off due to the negative voltage from the discharging

capacitor C one which was charged during the previous cycle.

So basically the off time of Q2 is determined by R one and C one time constant after a time period determined

by R one and C one time constant the capacitor c1 these completely and starts charging in reverse direction

through R-1 when the capacitor C1 charges to voltage sufficient to provide base ammeter voltage of zero

point seven words to the transistor q2 it the transistor will turn on and capacitor c2 starts these

charging the negative voltage from the capacitor c two thirds of the transistor Q1 and the capacitor

C one starts charging from VXI through resistor R and base meter of transistor Q2.

As a result, the transistor Q2 remains in on state as in the previous state, when the capacity to

discharge is completely, it starts charging towards opposite direction through R2.

Then the voltage across the capacitor CO2 is sufficient to turn the transistor on, which is Q1.

Q1 will turn on and capacitor C1 starts discharging.

This process continues and produces rectangular waves, the collector of each transistor.

So if you have noticed how this circuit works is through the RC network of the resistor and capacitor.

They form an RC network that controls the timing of the charging and discharging of the capacitors.

Let's go through the circuit again, but this time using our simulator.

All right.

So this is a circuit which, as you can see, generates a square wave signal.

Let me hit reset and increase the simulation speed to a very low value so we will see everything in

slow motion.

As you can see, both researchers are conducting, which is possible only right at the beginning.

Well, they both conduct because the base voltage of both transistors are around Adaiah drop.

Now, let's increase the simulation speed a little bit until only one transistor conducts.

And actually, there is no way to guess which one will stop conducting first scenes.

Both sides are symmetric and equally values.

All right.

As you can see, Q1 is the first one.

This is in cut off mode and the other one is in saturation mode.

In this state.

The base of Q2 is about one diode drop, about ground allowing base current to flow.

And this keeps Q2 switched on in saturation mode, allowing a current to flow through the collector,

keeping CLEETUS collector voltage low because here is ground right, which causes Setu to this charge.

Well, C2 is discharging because its leg is on the ground right now and if you hower your appointer

over situ, you can see that it's stored energy jobs.

In other words, the voltage across the capacitor is decreasing.

As you can see right now, Q One is switched off because its base voltage is not high enough to switch

it on.

In fact, the base voltage is negative.

And why is that?

Because C2 was charged previously from right to left, so it was charged to the power supply voltage,

which is fireballs, but it was charged from right to left because is a 320 ohm resistor is much smaller

than the 20 km resistor.

So it's obvious that there is more current flowing here than here.

And the voltage here before Kutya was conducting was a fireball, and the moment you started conducting

C to reversed its polarity and it is firewall's that was present on the right became negative voltage

on the left side of C2.

This is just basic charging and discharging principles of capacitors.

Now, as the quater current into Q2 flows through to the base, voltage of Q1 is going up there.

The voltage across the capacitor C2 is sufficient to turn on the transistor Q1.

Q1 will turn on and causing a Corot to flow through its connector, which will drop the greater voltage.

The left side of AC one has dropped because now this Lexy's ground and not fireballs as before.

Right.

So, again, the left side of C one has dropped, but the voltage across it hasn't changed.

So this causes acute to base voltage to drop below ground, switching it off.

Then we get the other half of the cycle with current flowing through Q1 and this continues until Q2

turns on and then the cycle repeats.

In the next course, we will learn about monos table selkowitz, which is very similar to the circuit,

and we will find out how to calculate the RC network to give you the desired square.

We'd see you there.