In this course, we will talk about another type of multi vibrator, namely the monos table one.

So a modest table, multi vibrator, it is one in which the output of the circuit turns on for a period

of time and then shuts off.

The output must be triggered on and it all turns on once per trigger and then shuts off.

In the absence of a trigger being sent to the circuit, the output stays off, which is its stable state.

And this is why the circuit is called US Monos Table State Circuit.

It is always off except in the event that there is a trigger so the stable state of one unstable circuit

is off.

We simply use push button to allow for the trigger that is necessary to turn on the output in the circuit.

Will you have an LSD as the output device being that it's easy to visualize what's going on through

the use of an already more unstable multi vibrator?

Circuits can be used for any circuit that needs to be momentarily turned on.

Once, for example, if you are in an exhibit where you want users to press a button to demonstrate

a circuit once these type of circuit can be used.

But even more commonplace is any device that you want to operate was before a push button press.

Think about how many applications there are.

Think of touch toys where you press the stomach and it says something.

The toy only talks where you press on it.

So this is an example of a model stabilizer created only does the action one time with a single trigger.

Each time you want to activate it again, you would have to trigger it again.

So you can see there are many applications that can be used for.

Let's jump directly to the simulation part, because I'm sure you will understand how the circuit works

right away.

And here we are, you are probably realized how similar this is with ease to an unstable one, the first

difference is that there is no resistor here and a capacitor here was replaced by a resistor before

hitting the trigger, which consists of a push button that is connected to ground before resistor in

between.

Let's see what's going on.

Cue one transistor is in cut off mode because the base voltage compared to ground or the base metal

voltage, same thing is 45 people.

It's the reason why this voltage is so low is because Q2 is turned on since the connector voltage is

much smaller than the base voltage.

Q2 is in the saturation mode and we know that when the transistor is in saturation mode, the collector

ammeter voltage is usually between zero point zero five and zero point to.

In our case, it's a zero point zero for millivolts.

This means that collector or the collector of Coutu is actually connected to ground.

You can look at the connected meter as a resistor, but since Q2 is in saturation, this collector šemeta

resistor has a very low value.

So as long as the collector of Q2 is tied to ground, Cuonzo Base will also be very close to the ground

level.

And even if we change, these are three value.

The base voltage of Q1 won't change at all because, in fact, there is not even current flowing in

this path since oil goes down the ground.

We will see soon was the importance of these 100 or resistor here.

Now let's go to the left side of the screen.

What do we see here?

The capacitor C1 is charged to the power supply voltage there almost because on the left side of it,

it's 10 volts and the right side is 696 millibars.

So the capacitor is actually charged to 10 volts, minus six hundred ninety six million volts, which

is nine point three hundred and four void's.

On the left side of the circuit, there is no current flowing anymore, c one is charged and Q1 is in

cut off mode.

As a result, the left side of C one is like being tied to the power supply voltage due towards how

our current is flowing nicely through the resistance r and question how much voltage is dropped across

this resistance?

Then what's Minola, 696 millivolts, right?

I have already seen how was geolocation happens in cases like this.

Each component of the circuit has a specific role that is called soon, but now let's hit the switch

button and see what happens.

All right.

The LCD is turned on and in a short amount of time, the LCD will turn off.

So just like we expected, a more stable circuit is turned on for a period of time and then shuts off.

So what are we going to do now is I will slow down the simulation and I will hit the trigger once again

and see what happens in more details.

All right, the switch was triggered and noticed that Q1 is now turned on and Q2 is in cutoff mode because

Q2 is not conducting the car and coming from the power supply is split into two current takes this path

to turn the lights on and the other direction is toward the base of Q1 down the ground, providing enough

current and voltage to turn this on.

But why is Q2 turned off?

That's because the base voltage is negative, which happens because of the discharging capacitor C1

before Q1 was turned on, you remember that here was 10 volts and here around 690 millivolts.

Right.

But the moment Q1 started conducting the capacitor, C1 started discharging in the opposite direction.

So before it was charged from left to right, but now is discharging from right to left, which you

can look at it like this charging, but in fact is just charging up again, but this time from right

to left.

So if I increase the simulation, speed it just a little bit, you can notice that the base voltage

of Q2 is increasing.

And that's because C1 is now charging up through the resistor are the energy will be turned on until

C one is charged to about 700 millivolts, which is enough to turn Q2 on.

You can actually see now that if you use a lower resistance, these capacitor will charge up from right

to left faster.

And if R is higher in resistance, less current will flow due to ohms law.

Hence the base voltage will rise slower.

And this is actually what our C network is about.

It's about timing.

The way you calculate how long the LCD will be turned on is actually very easy.

The amount of time that the output device will be on for is approximately equal to R times.

See, if we multiply one km, we for 18 micro Farad's we get the time constant of zero point zero 18

seconds.

In other words, 18 milliseconds.

Of course, in the simulator you won't notice that it's eight milliseconds because we had this simulation

speed which slows everything down for us.

But in fact we can see how long the LCD was turned on.

If we do the difference between the end time and the third time, you will see that it's somewhere around

eight milliseconds.

Great.

Now was the purpose of our three and our two, you might ask, well, if we take our three out and then

we hit the trigger, you will find out that the LSD is not turning on anymore.

But why is that?

Well, let's slow down the simulation of it.

I will hit the switch and now notice that the connector voltage is 760 millivolts, and since the early

is connected to the collector, the entity will receive the same voltage on its leg.

And obviously the energy will not turn on because a standard LCD like this one requires at least one

point two volts to turn on.

But why is the connector voltage 760 millimoles?

Because that's the base meter voltage drop of Q1.

First the voltage is dropped across R2 and the rest is dropped across the base meter voltage so that

at the end it reaches zero volts or ground.

On the other hand or two is required to not create a short circuit, then the lid is turned on because

the end doesn't really have any resistance.

So without Archil, you might create a short circuit between the power supply and the D ground.

Another purpose of this article is to control the amount of current that flows through Q2 when it is

turned on.