Welcome back.

Until now, we have seen how unstable and stable it works, the last type of multi vibrator is the stable

one, which requires two inputs to operate.

A beast circuit will keep a state unless we trigger it to change states.

So just like a more stable circuit and then you hit the trigger, the output will change from low to

high.

But unlike monos table, the output won't go back to low unless you hit the other trigger.

And this is why we call one of the input trigger set, which will set the output to high and the other

input trigger called Caldas Reset.

That will change the output back to its previous state.

Without understanding how this Bookstaber multi operator works, you want to understand how flipflops

and leches work because they are actually based on a B stable, a circuit where flipflops leches are

a fundamental building block of digital electronic system.

One of their chief applications is in storing data and as such they are widely used in computers and

processor systems of all sorts.

So when someone ask what is the basic storage element, you really apply, the basic storage element

are the leches and flipflops.

Let's not get into too much detail regarding leches and flipflops.

Now they are part of digital electronics and also explaining how they work now would go beyond the scope

of this letter.

What's more important now is to understand how a stable circuit works.

All right, here we are.

Our two trigger points are the set and reset.

Note that at this time we use logic inputs which work just like Bowdens.

But it's a more intuitive to use these ones than the logic level is low, just like now.

It acts as a ground.

So there's zero words here.

When you push it, the logic level turns to logic high, which is five words.

So basically when you push it, once you send a signal to the base of the transistor, you can even

change the voltages.

So if you.

Right, click on it and click on edit, you can change the voltages that represent the low and high.

So again, then the logic level is low, it acts as ground, then it is high.

It's like sending fireballs to the base.

If we look at the output right now, is logic high?

So it is that a five words in order to change the output state back to zero words or logic low, you

have to send a pulse on the other transistor base, which is called reset.

So in the context of digital electronics, now you can see how this circuit can store one bit for you.

If it receives a pulse from the exterior, you will store one bit of information which is represented

by logic in binary.

This would be one.

If you want to change these back to zero, just hit the reset button again.

Initially, Q2 is on and Q1 is of CS, Q1 is of no current is flowing through it and its collector voltage

is close to five volts.

This allows current to flow through into the base of Q2, which keeps Q2 switched on.

Q2 is in saturation mode right now, keeping the collector voltage close to ground.

And this prevents any current from flowing into the base of Q1 to switch it on.

The resistor that's connected in series with the base is used to limit the current and to not create

a short circuit between firewall's and this ground where you want to create the short circuit without

it anyway, because we have this 100 on register here.

But actually, how can we calculate the amount of current flowing in this path?

Well, Ohm's Law says that current is equal to voltage divided by resistance.

Right?

What is the voltage and what is the resistance where the total resistance flowing in this path is 100

ohm in series with one km.

So it's 1100 or in total.

Now, what's the voltage while I say it's five words, but in fact, since we have one dewdrop here,

we have to take it into account because it drops our voltage from five words down to four point three

words.

So because of this base ammeter voltage drop, the total voltage is firewall's minus zero point seven

volts, which is the basic metal voltage, and this equates to four point three voids.

So four point three words divided by one thousand and one hundred ohm equals to around three point eight

millions.

Now, by sending a positive person on Cuban base, we will turn a Q one on and these positive voltage

on the base of Q One will force the other transistor to turn off.

Now you can see that without these 100 unregister, we would create a short circuit between fibroids

and this ground.

But what is the purpose of these two one KMB resistor?

You might ask.

Well, let me ask you one thing.

What do you think is the voltage drop on this one KMB resistor right now?

This is zero volts or a grand, right.

And this is as well.

This one, Killorn Resistor, is actually in parallel with the base ammeter diode.

And we know that, you know, parallel circuit, the voltage drops across each of the branches is the

same.

So in this case, the diode will dictate the voltage drop because that's fixed.

It can be more than 700 millivolts.

And as a result, the voltage drop on this resistor is the same as the base meter voltage.

If we take out the other one kilometer and we hit the reset button, you will see that we got an error.

What we did is we created a nice short circuit between these firewalls and this ground.

There was no resistance in its path whatsoever, only the intrinsic resistance of the Šemeta resistance,

the little R, if you remember.

But that's relatively very low.

And also, I don't think that the simulator actually take that into account.

All right.

So they say, OK, we can store one bit of information and it is widely used in digital logic and computer

memory.

Another useful application that I just thought about is an alarm system in your car.

Then the thief opens the door, the alarm will turn on and does not go off until the owner presses a

reset switch within the car.