Hello, when we come back in its course, we will be discussing what a cemetery is and how it works.

So without further ado, let's get started on.

The military is a logical type that provides hysteresis or two different threshold voltage levels for

rising and falling.

Gadge, the competitor, has a differential amplifier at its core and a competitor.

Action means that the analog input is effectively changed to a digital output.

Dependent upon the voltages are the input.

By using the hysteresis, the effect of noise of the input which might cause several switches are the

output of the input voltage nears, the switching voltage is significantly reduced.

But what is hysteresis?

Well, hysteresis occurs in many instances throughout science.

But in the case of the CPU trigger, hysteresis means that the circuit triggers different voltages to

switch the output from one state to the other.

The problem of not using hysteresis with a competitor is that if the input signal rises slowly, then

a noise on the waveform will cause multiple switches of state of the output of the computer.

So, for example, if we have a noisy input signal like this that is meant to have two, Pearse's a

device that has only one set point or threshold could get incorrect input and it could register more

than two pulses as shown in this illustration.

And if we use the Shmeat trigger for the same input signal, we will get a correct input of two pulses

because of the two different thresholds.

So that's the primary function of the trigger to convert noisy square rave's sound waves or slow Ajay's

inputs into clean square Rape's Oshman trigger is used in a host of applications where a level needs

to be sensed.

Even if only a small amount of hysteresis is used.

It reduces the multiple transitions that can occur around the point of switching.

So, for example, I use Mitiga Circuit as well to turn my company advertising board on.

At night.

I use a photo diode that assesses the outside luminosity.

So when the sun goes down and it's getting darker, there's a point where the advertising board will

turn on.

Fortunately, since I use a trigger, the advertising board will not flicker at the beginning.

Since the lower threshold of the circuit is set much lower than the upper threshold.

There are many logical, integrated circuits that have a built in triggers on their inputs, but also

it can be built using transistors or easier using an operational amplifier or comparator and just adding

some resistors to it.

And a positive feedback building, which might trigger using integrated circuits or operation amplifiers,

is very easy since it abstracts away a lot of details.

A good engineer has to understand how things work under the hood, and that's why we look at how Ashmead

Trigger works using transistors.

All right, so this is what is known as Ashmead Trigger.

The input signal consists of 280 sources in Ceres, and that's because we want to simulate or generate

a noisy seismic signal as shown here.

The second, called Power, shows the output signal taken from the collector of Q2.

Let me take out these two kilohertz signal generator a bit so that we have a clean sine.

Maybe I will slow down the simulation a little bit and then I hit reset.

All right, so now the input voltage is at zero woods, by the way, the input signal, which is two

words, Siwei is added on top of a DC signal, and that's why the input doesn't go in the negative region.

Notice that the output right now is low, and when the signal reaches about one point five words, the

output will go from low to high.

So one point five words is the upper threshold and the lower threshold is about one point, one words.

So when the signal goes below one point, one word, the output will go from high to low.

So between the upper and lower threshold, there is a zero point four words gap, which is enough to

prevent the output to trigger multiple times when the input noise signal is approaching, let's say

the one point five volts, if there would be only one threshold like only the upper threshold because

of the noise, the output could experience plenty of pulses because the noise would keep going above

and below the threshold voltage.

And we don't want that.

Right.

So until the input signal doesn't go below one point one volts, the output will not change its state.

So how does it work?

Where should we start?

Let's say the input starts on the ground.

So I will remove these and connect to the base of Q1 round.

Now, obviously, Q1 is in cut off mode, sees its base ATM voltage is minus 877 millivolts, why is

it negative?

Because the ATM is at the higher potential than the base, which is tied to ground.

So this ATM voltage can be dropped on only one component, which is this 100 almar zester.

So the voltage drop across the Šemeta resistor is 877 millivolts.

On the other hand, the collector voltage is at two point one voice, and why is that?

If you look attentively, there is a voltage divider formed by these 500 ohm resistor and these two

resistors combined.

So these voltage divider puts key ones connector at about dewpoint one.

Would that if you do the exact math, it will give you around two point two words actually.

But since there's some little tiny bhaskaran that escapes here, the final voltage is dew point one

walls.

But what's the base voltage of Q2?

Well, it's about one point five words.

If you take the volt meter, you would put the probe on the base of Kittu and the black probe the ground.

Right.

Your one meter will read one point five words.

But if you notice, these 300 resistor is actually in parallel if if your two probes.

And that's why the voltage drop on this resistor is the same as the base voltage of Q2.

Now going further, the meter of Q2 is one that will drop lower than its base.

Right.

So it could use a meter is at about 900 millivolts.

Seems Kitto now is conducting it brings the collector or the output low towards the ground, the output

voltage is at around 950 millivolts and that's because the output is not connected directly to ground.

They are to voltage drops on the ground.

So the first one is the collector meter voltage job and the other one is the voltage drop across this

100 ohm resistor.

And the sum of these two voltage drops is the output voltage.

Right now, as we can see, a pure once meter is tied to use meter.

So basically both meters are the same voltage levels at about 900 millivolts.

So Q1 will be off until the input rises to about how much.

So what's the required based voltage to turn on this one?

It should be one point five.

That's right, because the meter is already at 900 millivolts.

So 900 millivolts plus zero point seven.

What is equal to one point forwards?

Around one point five volts.

Now, I have placed back that you will sign me without the noise added on it because it's not necessary.

So was the input rises at about one point, five words cue while we conduct.

And now let me slow down the simulation so Q1 will conduct bringing it correct or no, which will lower

the voltage of youchoose base and shut it off, bringing the output high.

Now you remember previously that in order to turn Q1 on, it needed around one point five words on its

base to turn it on.

Right.

And here comes the magic.

When the input signal drops below one point five words, Q1 will still be conducting, even though it

required one point five years to turn on.

Q2 will only start conducting when the input signal falls below one point one woods.

And why is that?

In order for Q2 to turn on, which will bring the output back to low, the base voltage has to be one.

They'll drop higher than its šemeta, right?

Now, let me increase the simulation speed a little bit.

And if we look at the voltages in slow motion, you will see that most of the time, Quddus base is

lower than Daym, which means that Q2 is off.

But as the input voltage approaches, this one point one would.

The base meter voltage surpasses the meter voltage, and the moment you choose base voltage is higher

of 700 millivolts than the meter cut you will turn on.

So as he has seen most of the time, Quddus base was lower than the ammeter voltage, but why did the

base voltage start to or pass the meter voltage as the input voltage approached one point one word?

That's because when the input approached the lower threshold limit of one point one, what the collector

ammeter current of Q1 was low enough that it actually came out of saturation and went into forward active

mode and voltage across it became large enough to turn on YouTube.

So there is a transition from saturation to forward mode, which, as we know, in a forward active

mode, the collector ammeter voltage drop is much higher than when the transistor is in saturation mode.

So the input has to drop below about one point one watt in order to turn off Q1 and turn on Q2.

When this happens, the current Q1 is low enough that it comes out of saturation and goes into forward

active mode and the voltage drop across it becomes large enough to turn on Q2.

So the moment Q2 turns on, it brings the output low.

Now, when the input voltage rises slightly above one point, one boils again, this will not change

the output.

The input has to rise above one point five votes to turn on Q1.

And that's because the emitter of Q1 is already at eight hundred seventy eight millivolts.

That's it.

Now the cycle repeats over and over again.

So this is the end of the course.

Thank you for watching.

And if you have any questions, just leave a comment below and I will get back to you in the shortest

amount of time.