Hello, when we come back, we start talking about oscillators, and in this course we'll examine how

a cold peats oscillator works, which is based on a bipolar junction transistor.

It's a very interesting circuit and a way to show it to you.

But first, what is an oscillator?

The electronic circuit that produces periodically oscillating electronic signals, such as a sine wave,

square wave or any other way is termed until 20 years later.

Crusoe's and oscillators are the heartbeat of microcontrollers, processors and other devices.

If there would be no heartbeat, it will remain in deep sleep nor power supply and other signals can

read them up.

Almost all the time, Chris, isolators are used in digital electronics, the difference between oscillators

and crystals is that a crystal, which is a piece of plastic material, can generate an oscillating

signal to the signal due to the mechanical vibration of a structure.

However, an oscillator is an electronic circuit that generates a periodically oscillating electrical

signal.

Oscillators convert direct current from a power supply to an alternating current signal.

Oscillators are a cheap and easy way to generate specific frequency of a signal.

For example, an RC oscillator is used to generate a low frequency signal, an as oscillator is used

to generate a high frequency signal and an operation amplifier based oscillator is used to generate

a stable frequency for oscillations to exist.

An oscillator circuit must contain a reactive, which is a frequency dependent component, either a

doctor or a capacitor, as well as the power supply.

These may be also classified as high frequency, very high frequency and ultra high frequency oscillators,

etc. depending on the frequency.

Typically the operating frequency of the call oscillators ranges from 30 kilohertz to 300 megahertz.

And as a result, Corbitt oscillators can be used in high frequency sine wave generators.

They are usually used in radio frequency applications as a local oscillator in radio receivers or for

the development of mobile communications.

But they are also used in many other commercial applications.

The advantages of Corbetts oscillator are as follows.

Corbetts oscillator can generate signals signals of a very high frequency, and soon we will see how

to determine the generated output frequency.

It can withstand high and low temperatures.

The frequency stability is high frequency can be varied very easily.

So how does a corporate oscillator work?

Probably the main takeaway of this course is not to understand how Corbitt oscillator works, but understand

what a positive feedback means since this oscillator is working based on what is called as positive

feedback.

All right.

So in optronics, there can be negative or positive feedback.

It will become more clear whilst we learn about operation amplifiers, though, because they extensively

rely on these feedbacks, especially on the negative one.

So what is meant by positive feedback?

Electronics, where positive feedback is that a part of the output is given back to the input so that

the output increases more?

This is done to produce oscillations and the negative feedback is then a part of the output is given

back to the inputs so that the output decreases more.

This is generally used to stabilize the gain of an amplifier.

So when a circuit uses a positive feedback, the output increases.

But this can only be achieved if the output signal is brought back to the input with the condition that

the output signal is in phase with the input signal.

In other words, when the output signal, which happens to be in phase with the input signal is brought

back, they add up.

So generally this leads to increasing input to the system as time progresses with negative feedback,

you have the same feedback as before, but instead the output is out of phase with the input.

So it subtracts from the input or reduces the inputs to the system.

Now these feedbacks can be either voltage or current or any quantity as much where input is converted

to output.

So let's say we have an NPR transistor and we feed the base, we facilitate.

And my question to you right now is how can we create a positive feedback here?

Should we take the output voltage of the collector or of the SM?

That I hope we know this by now, that if we feed the transistor with a sine wave, the same signal

will appear on the collector.

That probably amplified.

But the output signal has a 180 degree phase shift with regard to the input voltage signal.

However, if we take the output of the ammeter, the Al Pacino will be exactly in phase with each other.

Now, as we said, in order to create a positive feedback, the output signal must be in phase with

the input signal so that if we bring back the output of the input, they will add up, sees Corbitt

oscillator and any other oscillators is based on positive feedback.

The output will be taken off the SM and not the collector.

The positive feedback is taken off the ammeter and is fed between two capacitors that are in series.

Indeed, this circuit also seems to have a negative feedback, but it just seems as such as soon this

will be Spain as well.

This as he's here that we can see here is the one that controls the frequency of isolation and it is

often called the tank circuit because it contains circulating currents much greater than the currents

supplying it.

We already talked about sea and oracy circuits.

Right.

And we have seen that the circuit is nothing else but an oscillating circuit.

Now, let's continue our discussion in the simulator.

All right.

So how does this rocket work?

The output is taken off.

The collector of the NBN transistor and a sine wave is generated by the elsea resonance circuit.

As you can see, current moves back and forth as the capacitors charge and discharge through the doctor,

the transistor.

What it does is it amplifies the weak Sivir generated by the Ursy circuit.

So if he right.

Click on the base and click view in scope and let's zoom the signal that we can see that the circuit

actually generates a 100 million words big to pick sine wave, and the signal is amplified by the transistor

so that the output signal is around four point five words.

Now, what do you think happens if we take out this one KMB resistor?

As we can see, the AC oscillator is still oscillating with an ideal capacitor and ideal coil.

The cycle would be repeated forever.

However, real capacitors area doctors have serious resistances which, as we can see, reduces the

strength, which is the amplitude of each cycle.

So we can see that the transistor amplifies the input signal and the current through this one KMB resistor

prevents the circuit from dying out.

All right, so in order to understand how the circuit works.

Let me slow down the simulation and I will hit reset.

All right.

As you can see, there's a current flowing through the one kilometer and these current charges are easy

to remember that current takes the path of least resistance.

So the reason why current doesn't go through the 10 million range, doctor, is because initially the

inductor has very high resistance compared to the capacitor, which initially has zero resistance.

Right.

So inductors doesn't really like the sudden change in Corones.

Right.

And that's why it can be a perfect Lopez filter just by itself.

In short amount of time, however, the resistance of the inductor, which in fact is called reactance,

decreases, allowing more and more current to flow through it.

And once the current goes through the inductor, the current again tries to seek for the path of least

resistance.

And that's one.

The important thing that you must realize here is that C one is actually in parallel with the base ammeter

diode.

This means that the movement C one charges up to at least 700 millivolts.

The transistor will turn on right.

Parallel branches have always the same voltage.

So as a capacitor charges up, the base meter voltage is increasing.

When the transistor is off, the output is around four point five words.

And why is it 4.5 watts?

That's because this one hundred and one km resistor forms of voltage divider, which puts the output

at around four point five, would.

As we can see, until the transistor is in cut off mode, both capacitors are charging up now, what

will happen when the transistor fully turns on?

So let me pause the simulation and let's think about what's going to happen when the transistor turns

on first.

When the transistor turns on, it will bring the output low.

Why?

Because current always takes the path of least resistance.

So instead of going through the one kilometer, it will go down through the towards ground.

What else will happen?

The positive feedback taken off the meter.

So this huge amount of current that will flow on the meter, a current that is limited by this 100 is

there.

So this meter current will take this path as well, and then current will split in two.

This time C2 will be charged from the opposite direction as well as C one.

Or we can say that it basically discharges the previously charge capacitors because this time current

will go through the capacitor in the opposite direction as previously waters will happen when the transistor

is fully turned on.

There will be almost no current flowing in this path which will let the inductor to this charge so the

magnetic field will collapse, generating current in the opposite direction.

And this relatively high current is generated by the doctor will charge opposite you and also will further

discharge C one, which in turn will turn off the transistor.

So let's see in slow motion all these things.

All right.

The transistor is now fully turned on because see, one got charged at around 700 millivolts, which

caused 50 million amps to flow on the ammeter firewall's divided by 100 is 50 millions, from which

a large amount is used to basically discharge of both capacitors.

Now, I will resume the simulation and as we said, the magnetic field built around the doctor will

collapse, generating a current in the opposite direction, which is charging up CO2 at the same time,

discharging one that will cause a decrease of base ammeter voltage, which will turn off the transistor

again.

And then the cycle repeats all over again and again.

One more thing, just to make it clear why this connection is a positive feedback, if we look attentively

when the transistor turns on current that is taken from the SM is fed directly to the base.

So basically because the ammeter voltage is in phase with the input voltage, the current end up.

So if I take this out, you can see how little the input current is compared to how much it is when

the positive feedback is connected.

And I'm sorry about that.

We didn't talk about the output frequency, which is, as you can see, two hundred seventeen hertz.

Well, as we mentioned, the frequency set by this L.C resonance here with the equation to find out

the output frequency is this one where city is a total capacitance since the capacitors are in series

and both capacitors have the same value, the total capacitors is exactly half, which is 50 Microfit.

So by pay with the value of inductor and all capacitors, we can increase or decrease the output signal

frequency.