Hello, guys, what's up?

This chapter is dedicated solely about D.C. power, a place where we will examine some important work

that everyone has to know.

As we progress through the courses, we examine more and more complex circuits.

Knowing how to design a power supply is an essential skill for everyone who's interested in electronics

because there is no electronic circuit that operates on DC without having at least one AC to DC converter.

So in its course we are going to look at the main building blocks of DC power source.

So we will have a generalized understanding of what are the critical parts that are necessary to build

a functional power supply or.

Depending on its design, a D.C. power supply may be powered from D.C. source like DC to DC converter

or from an easy source such as the power mains, a DC power supply, nothing else but a circuit that

is used to supply a constant DC voltage to its load.

DC power supplies can be categorized in various ways, including by functional features.

For example, a regulated power supply is one that maintains constant output, voltage or current,

despite variations in low current or input voltage.

Conversely, the output of an unregulated power supply can change significantly when its input voltage

or lowered current changes about unregulated power supplies will be talked more in the next course,

where we'll examine some very bad practices that you should avoid when designing a power supply.

So we will begin by a very poorly made D.C. power source and we will try to improve it so that from

an unregulated power supply, we create a regulated one.

All right.

Another type of power supply is the adjustable one that allows the output voltage or current to be programmed

by mechanical controls, like the parameters on a power supply from panel or by means of a control input

or both.

An adjustable regulated power supply is one that is both adjustable and regulated.

The other type is the isolated power supply, where the output is electrically independent of its input.

This is in contrast to other power supplies that share a common connection between power, input and

output.

Isolated power supplies provide a clear barrier across which dangerous voltages on pass.

This provides a safety right.

And when a power supply is listed as isolated, it is normally referring to input, to output, isolation.

This isolation is typically achieved by the use of a transformer.

If we look at this diagram, you can see what are the main building blocks of an isolated power supply.

Why do you have to know right now?

Is that all the switching mode power supplies are isolated and so the output is not connected whatsoever

to the input.

In other words, the grounds are separated or switching more power supply.

Convert the AC input power directly into ADC by using a rectifier circuit and a DDC voltage is then

converted into a higher frequency AC signal by using a switching circuit, which is then used in the

regulator circuit to produce the desired voltage and current.

These power supplies require what is known as and driver that controls the switching block.

And by changing the width of the PVM you can increase or decrease the output voltage.

The great advantage of using switching more power supplies is that the size of the transformer is indirectly

proportional to the frequency.

Switching mode has complex circuitry and noise, high efficiency, small size, lighter weight and low

heat dissipation are the advantages of switching more power supply.

For example, all the mobile phone chargers or laptop chargers are made using switching more power supplies

because they can be fitted into a smaller case.

All right.

So as we mentioned, power supplies can be classified by their functional feature like unregulated,

regulated, adjustable, regulated and finally isolated power supplies.

But they can also be classified by their power conversion method.

So as with these, they are switching more power supplies and the other one is linear power supplies.

From now on, we will focus on how to design a linear power supplies.

And after we understood how they work, we will start exploring in more depth about the switching mode.

Power supplies.

A regulated power supply is also known as a linear power supply.

It is an embedded circuit and consists of various blocks.

The regulated power supply will accept an AC input and give a constant ADC output.

The figure shows the block diagram of a typical regulated DC power supply.

The basic building blocks of a regulated DC power supply are the following a standard transformer,

a rectifier, a DC filter and finally a regulator.

Great.

So these are the main building blocks of a regulated linnear power supply and let's say a few words

about each block like what they are and what they do.

So the first block is a step down transformer.

Step down, Transformer will set down the voltage from the AC mains to the required voltage level,

the turn, the ratio of the transformer is adjusted, such as to obtain the required voltage value as

the output of the transformer, as you can see, is given as an input to the rectifiers.

Ill-Equipped actually, or these steps like standing transformer rectification, are filtering a regulation

was explained the volume one.

That's why I try to be as brief as possible.

So as we know, Rectifier is an electronic circuit consisting of diodes, which carries all the ratification

process.

So ratification is a process of converting and alternating voltage or current into corresponding direct

current.

The input to a rectifier is azy, whereas its output is unidirectional, pulsating DC.

Although a halfway rectifier could technically be used if power losses are significant compared to a

full way rectifier, such a four way rectifier or Predictify is used to rectify both the half cycle

of the AC supply.

The rectifies voltage from the rectifier is a positive DC voltage having very high rippa content.

But this is not what we want, right?

We want a pure repoll free DC waveform.

Hence a filter is used for different types of filters are used such as capacitor filter, L.C, filter,

tokin put filter or betye filter.

This figure shows a capacitor filter connected along the output of the rectifier and the resultant output

waveform.

As the instantaneous voltage starts increasing the capacitor charges it charges onto the waveform reaches

its peak value.

Then the instantaneous value starts reducing.

The capacitor starts discharging exponentially and slowly through the load has an almost constant DC

value.

Having very less Rippa content is obtained and the last stages the regulation part dysregulation part

is used to because the output, voltage or current will change or fluctuate when there is a change in

the input from ACMD or due to change in load current the output of the regulated power supply or due

to other factors like temperature changes.

This problem can be eliminated by using a regulator.

A regulator will maintain the output constant equal event changes, the input or any other changes occured.

Many times you will see that DC power supplies use an integrated circuit like the popular L.M. 317 and

723, which is a simple.

I see that we will do the whole job for you, that these elementary circuits to flavor one, it can

output just the specified voltage given in its datasheet.

And there are the other types that can output a range of voltages depending on the voltage on the adjust

pin.

Now, of course, I won't try to teach you how to work with these.

I see that would be like cheating at an exam.

Instead, I try to teach you how to build one.

See you next course.