All right, welcome back.

In the previous course, we have seen the building blocks of a linear power supply, right?

And in this chain, the most difficult block to design or build is the regulator block.

The first three blocks are relatively easy.

And I assume that you already know by now how to create from an AC voltage DC.

So because of this in upcoming selkowitz, instead of creating these three blocks all the time, we

will use a simple DC power supply that will be given as input to the regulator block.

So we will solely focus on how to design a functional regulator.

First, let's see how to not design a regulator circuit.

Let's assume that we have a 50 Walls DC input and we want to create a 10 volt DC output.

So what do we do?

Well, we could use a voltage divider by using a four km V for one kilo resistor, we can generate a

voltage of 10 words.

There's only one problem with this so-called regulator, and that is if we want to power any load or

circuit with these power supply, we realize that at the moment we collect a load.

It can have any input, impedance or resistance.

The output voltage of our power supply drops instantaneously.

We for one km load.

The output is not towards anymore, but it's five point six words.

Now, if we change the resistance of the load to, let's say, five hundred on, the output drops further

to three point eight, which is why.

That's because if you have noticed, the load is exactly in parallel with this one km resistor.

So by connecting a load to the output, we basically modify the overall resistance of the voltage divider.

So are you in the equation?

Will not be one km, but it will be one km in parallel with the output resistance.

This is obviously a very bad design, so let's come up with a better one using a magical component called

US Zehner Diode.

All right, so the circuit didn't really change instead of a resistor, here we have a Zentner diode,

as we know, as a..

Diode is always operated in its reverse by its condition.

So the cathodes terminal is connected to the positive rain.

And these 500 already history series with a diode is used to limit the current through the ZEHNDER diode.

So if you take this out and connect the supply directly to the Zehner diode.

You can see that the simulator says that the maximum current is exceeded.

So make sure that you connect resistor in series with the Zehner, otherwise you will destroy it for

sure.

Now, the stabilized output voltage is always selected to be the same as the breakdown voltage of the

diode, since the breakdown voltage of DNA diodes that holds the voltage across it is terrible.

And even if you change the value of the load, the voltage will always be the same, except if the load

is very small, like 100 ohm.

As you can see, the voltage has dropped to eight point three voids because the Zehner diode doesn't

receive enough current to operate properly.

The car necessary for the Zendaya to function well is called less than their current.

This and this value can be found in a dataset of the particular Zeder diode.

Now, let's change the laws back to one km.

What do you think is the problem of this regulator circuit?

Well, the problem is that if there is no load connected to the circuit, the load cars will be zero.

And all the circuit current passes through this Henare diode, which in turn dissipates its maximum

power.

Also, a small value of the series resistor will result in a greater diode current than the load resistance

is collected and large.

This will increase the power dissipation requirement of the diode, so it must be taken in selecting

the appropriate value of serious resistance so that the Zander's maximum power rating is not exceeded

under this no load or high impedance condition.

All right.

So again, the problem with the circuit is that we had this resistor here in series, the power supply,

whose resistance needs to be set precisely not too high if it's too high.

The Aurora, Colorado, the circuit is reduced.

If it's too low, plenty of current will flow through the child and they will both dissipate power.

Right now, if we look at the power dissipated by this resistor, we will see it around three watts,

which is very high.

You will be required to use a power resistor like this one to handle this current.

Another problem with the circuit, which is more subtle, is that is another diode can sometimes generate

electrical noise on top of a DC supply as it tries to stabilize the voltage.

Normally, this is not a problem for most applications, but the addition of a large value, the coupling

capacitor across the Zina's output may be required to give additional smoothing.

All right, so the next quarters we are going to look at will solve the problem of participation on

the Senate diet.

If we look at it right now, the diet dissipates around 700 milliwatts, which is quite high.

The diet must be capable to dissipate.

These power sees this serious resistance must be kept low so that the Lord receives it's necessary clearance

to operate.

Since we have a one kilometer zester on a 10 mile to D.C., there should be a 10 million current passing

through the resistance.

Right.

However, if we increase the value of the resistance to, let's say, 10 km, the Zehner will not regulated

the output voltage anymore.

Since the current passing through, it is very low and also the output current has dropped to four point

five millions.

So let's solve these problems before better circuit.

These circuit uses an LP transistor whose base is tied to the cathode of the Zenner diode.

The resistor used to limit the current through the Zehner diodes Tarakanov this time and the power dissipation

on the Zehnder has been reduced to around 40 million watts.

And the reason why we could increase this resistance to thank you know, without dropping the output

voltage is because the transistor has the high input impedance, meaning that the base current is very

low.

So the whole current in this path can be allocated for the center diode because there will be very tiny

current escaping here.

By knowing the inner current from its datasheet, we can choose an appropriate resistor here since the

baseball Teej of the transistor is a turmoils because of those and a diode diameter voltage will be

one dewdrop less.

So it's nine point three words.

These diode drop is one of the drawback of the circuit, since the output will always be one drop less

than the reference voltage.

And this also means that the output voltage cannot drop below zero points downwards because the transistor

will not conduct a modern well made power supply can drop below zero points downwards so that it can

even output a voltage of zero point one Walts if that's the case.

All right, this resistance here is optional, it's a good practice, though, to have a very small

resistance in series with the load, but this depends on what you're powering.

If you were to power another circuit with these power supply and not a dummy resistance load like here,

then you never know whether the circuit you are powering will work as expected.

So to prevent creating a short circuit between the power supply and this ground, a 100 or resistor

is used.

Now the output current is equal to 50 volts, divided by 100 plus one km resistor, which is of course

around ten millions.

The beat of the transistor is 100.

Since the transistor works in forward mode, the correct RAIM current is equal to Bay's current times.

Beita.

The transistor works in a forward active mode because the connector voltage is higher than the voltage

and the base voltage is higher than the meter voltage.

So we managed to solve the problem of participation on the ZEHNDER diode.

Right.

But this circuit has one major flaw.

If the resistance is too small, let's say 100 on this load still seems to be supported since the output

fell just a little bit.

If we changed to, let's say, 10 ohm, notice that the output voltage has been reduced to 4.5 watts.

So the circuit is basically unable to provide enough power to the load.

The current is fine.

It's fifty one millions, but the voltage has been drastically reduced.

We need somehow to design a circuit in a way that it provides better current amplification.

So what I mean is we need to increase the input impedance of the transistor, meaning that somehow there

should be less current flowing on the base and the current amplification.

In other words, the Beatles, the transistor should be increased.

How can we do that?

By using a darling Dompierre?