All right, so in the previous course, we have seen how to create a power supply using a sensor diode

and one NPM transistor.

Don't be afraid, this is not a new one is the same as before.

It's just the components are rearranged a little bit.

And we have seen that when we wanted to power a load as little as 10 on the regulator said we could

not provide enough power to our load instead of downwards, as it should be.

It's 4.5 volts, which in turn decreases the output current as well.

Now, what do we do?

Should we increase the input voltage?

Well, of course not.

In cases like this, a darling Dompierre is recommended to use.

Now, notice that by using the Darling Dompierre, which consists of two amps transistors, we managed

to achieve two things.

First, we managed to keep the output voltage at 10 volts.

Oh, I'm sorry.

I almost forgot to tell you.

I had to go to eleven point four.

What zehner to make up for the voltage drops across the two base ATM junctions.

And the other thing that we managed to achieve is to increase the output current to one amps, as it

should be.

Now the current amplification is one thousand instead of one hundred, as it was previously.

So the output current is equal to Bass current times 1000.

This is true because the pair works in forward active mode, but don't think it this way right now.

If the output voltage is towards, then if you connect a 10 ohm load, the load should receive what

MS.

Right.

This is basic ohms law.

So towards divided by ten is what amps.

Great.

So far so good.

They put impedance of a dorrington pair is much higher than a single transistor, hence the bass current

is much smaller.

This brings the benefit of leaving enough current for the Zehner to operate properly when there are

demands in high current as it is now, make sure that the first transistor across which most of the

current passes is a power transistor.

So that is able to handle the high current and it is also recommended to mount on the heating.

However, the other transistor can be a small, normal one.

There's really no much current passing through it.

Probably you have noticed there's a capacitor here in parallel with the center diode and it is used

to filter out the noise generated by the Zehner diode because sometimes it can add some noise on top

of the DC while he's trying to regulate the voltage.

So by using these capacitor we get a noise free clean DC output voltage.

Now, what do you think the problem with this circuit is?

The problem is that we cannot adjust the output voltage.

It is always at 10 miles due to the Zehner diode.

If you look at power supplies, you will see these wide knobs, which are nothing else but potential

meters.

So by basically rotating these potential meters, you can increase or decrease the output voltage.

And this is exactly what we are going to build as well in the next course.