Welcome back, guys, in this course, we will discuss about a fully functional power supply that is

able to output the current from zero to 10 amps, and the output voltage can range from one point three

volts, up to 50 void's or.

Before we get into the simulation part by looking at the circuit, what do you think are the components

that limit the total amount of current to 10 enters that first?

The input power is provided by plugging the power supply into a wall socket that will provide you with

220 volts depending on the country you live in.

Then we have a fuse here of zero point five amps.

A fuse is an electrical safety device that operates to provide over current protection of an electrical

circuit.

It is a sacrificial device, so once a fuse has operated, it is an open circuit and it must be replaced

or rewired depending on the type.

So short circuits overloading mismatched clothes or device failures are the prime or some of the reasons

for fuse operation.

Now, the moment there is more than zero point five amps flowing in this path, the fuse will break,

creating an open secret.

So no more current will flow in the hole.

Silkwood basically.

Right, but why is it only zero point five amps?

You might ask when the circuit in fact can output up to 10 rampers.

That's because of this transformer.

This is a step down transformer, right?

That will reduce the 220 volts to around fifty three voids.

If this is an ideal transformer, the power on the primary is equal with the power on the secondary.

Because power is not wasted.

Power is equal to voltage times.

Clarence.

Right.

So if the voltage on the secondary has been reduced, the current has to increase automatically in order

to keep the two powers equal.

The step up step down effect of Kolten ratios in the transformer is analogous to gear to ratios in mechanical

gear, systems transforming values of speed and talk in much the same way.

The primary of the transformer is analogous to the large gear, which has a high torque but low speed.

The smaller gear has fewer teeth, so it has a low torque, but the speed is increased, which is analogous

to current.

So overall, a Saddam transformer will reduce the voltage, but will increase the current we have already

talked about this, by the way, when we studied Transformers.

Then we have a bridge rectifier that we convert the AC into pulsating DC, and then by using a large

capacitor C1, this pulsating DC will be converted into a clean DC voltage.

Make sure that the power dissipated on the diodes is lower than the maximum power allowed, which you

can find in the datasheet of the specific diode.

So this part is only to convert our AC signal provided by the electrical network to a clean DC signal.

And in the simulator we will replace this with a single DC power supply.

Then current will flow through these two transistors and then to the Lord connected to the circuit.

So why is this circuit limited to teenyboppers?

It's because of this transformer.

If the current on the secondary passes that impasse, this means that the current on the primary has

to increase, too, because the voltage on the primary is already fixed.

But if the current on the primary increases and it passes a zero point five amps, the fuse will break

and no current will flow in the circuit anymore.

All right, let's move further.

By the way, if you have any questions that, just leave it below.

So what is the purpose of this diode here?

Its purpose is to bring the base voltage of Q3 to a lower voltage than its collector or the transistor

walking forward mode, which means that collective current is equal to current times.

Better in order for a transistor to work in a forward active mode, the greater voltage must be higher

than the base voltage and the base voltage must be higher than the ammeter voltage.

So there will be a zero point seven volts voltage drop on this diode, which will make the base current

of Q3 to be at a lower voltage than the collector or one or two are used to limit.

The current Q1 is turned on, so we won't create a short between this point and this point.

Could you is driving Q1, right?

So there will be much more current flowing through Q1 than through to make sure that you choose the

value of R2 so that when Q1 is fully turned on, then current passing through it will not exceed the

maximum.

Correct.

Our current allowed.

Otherwise you will destroy it.

So what we see here is called us feedback.

It's called feedback, because the output is brought back to the input, which in turn will control

the output voltage.

The output voltage is brought back through a variable resistor that will turn on or off Q2.

Basically, this variable resistor is nothing else.

But what is divider, right?

The input voltage of the voltage divider is basically the output voltage of the circuit.

And based on how the potential meter is positioned, it can control the amount of voltage present on

Q3.

If Q2 is fully turned on, Q1 will be fully turned on as well, which will bring Guthrie's bass to ground.

If Guthrie's bass is at the ground or the power transistors will turn off, causing no current to flow

to the load.

So basically using this feedback network, which consists of a potential meter and dialing pair, we

can increase or decrease the output voltage.

We will see this tune in a simulator next.

You are wondering what the purpose of this resistor actually was.

The purpose of Citrix.

It is connected across the output of the circuit in order to reduce the fluctuations in voltage that

the load we receive, probably the lower connected to the output is another circuit.

Right.

And there might be some parts in the circuit that works in computation.

So at the moment it needs high current and the other one lower one.

These changes in current might happen very fast because of this Fidelities capacitor.

The voltage on the output might show some fluctuations depending on the demand of current that the other

circuit requires.

So to further get rid of these fluctuations, then a capacitor of this is required.

Now, if we don't have this resistor here, then then we unplug this power supply and no load is collected

or the output.

These capacitor will remain charged to the voltage.

It was previously set probably 250 volts.

Right.

So without this resistor, there's nothing to this charge is capacitor, which is a problem, because

if you connect a load that operates with a maximum voltage of ten volts, let's say because the capacitor

was charged 250, 50, what the load will receive a sudden spike of 50 words that might destroy the

other circuit or load.

So in order to prevent the capacitor to being charged up where we disconnect the circuit resistor in

parallel is required.

Great.

Now what about our four and our five?

The purpose of these resistors may not be that obvious.

I know these resistors are called us balancing resistors.

You will often find these resistors in amplifier circuits as well.

And these resistors are low in value that can handle high wattages since the output current is flowing

through them.

Q3 is driving Q4 and Q5, right?

So the majority of the output current will pass through these two transistors.

If Q3 is not capable to provide enough base current for both of the transistors, we could use one more

transistors as shown here.

So to control transistors will drive two high powered transistors.

We will use only one control transistor, but it is highly recommended to add one more control transistor

that will boost the current on the base of the two power transistors so they will be able to provide

more current to the load for simplicity.

We will use only one transistor.

Alright, since the output current is the sum of the quieter current of Q4 and Q5, plenty of current

will flow through them.

The current has to be distributed evenly above current.

Passing through the two transistors has to be equal.

The problem that arises here is that even though we use the same output, transistors during the manufacturing

process is not possible to create exactly similar transistors, which means that there can be more current

flowing on one transistor than on the other one.

And we don't want any nice matching current because this means that one transistor will dissipate more

power than the other one.

Right.

So in order to even out the power dissipation, balancing resistors are used, which will set equal

current on both of the collectors.

These must be high powered resistors and very low in value.

Why are they low in value?

Because we don't want big voltage drops on these resistors, because then the circuit will not be able

to output its maximum voltage that was designed for the what is drop across the resistor is current

times resistance.

So if the resistance is very small, the voltage drop will be very small as well, which is exactly

what we want.

Great.

Now let's see how this circuit behaves in our simulator.