So I have built a circuit, but I also highly recommend you to build for yourself, to wear not just

this one, but all the other circuits that we are studying, because you might probably wonder what

is the voltage there or current flowing in this power for the other one, which I might miss to show.

All right.

The input voltage is a clean 52 volt DC, and the reason why it's 52 volts is because we have a dial

here then to base a meter voltage drops.

So if you want to obtain 50 volts output, then you have to take into account these voltage drops.

The same right now is powering a load of one km.

So the current will be 50 million.

Sizewell, even though it receives 50 millions, the current passing through the tube power transistors

is one hundred and three millions.

Why is that?

Because of this resistor here through which 152 million is passing through.

You might say that this is not a very good design, which is true, but it's a functional one.

As we said in the previous course, in order to discharge these capacitor when no current is provided,

this resistor is used.

So if we suddenly unplug the power supply from the wall socket, then you can notice that the capacitor

is successfully discharging through the 330 ohm resistor.

All right, so I have reset to the simulation.

Now, if we don't have this resistance and no load is connected to the output and then we unplug the

power supply, notice that the capacitor has remained charged at 50 void's.

And the moment you connect the load, that requires a maximum voltage of, let's say, 10 volts, the

circuit you connect will get damaged.

This capacitor is optional, but it's a good practice in order to further flatten out the output.

DC voltage, especially the circuit that you are powering, is keep changing its current demands, like,

for example, circuits that working computation or any other sort of digital circuit.

If you were to design this circuit in real life, make sure that you use power resistor, which can

dissipate the power on it.

Now, if we were to take it out, we can see that the current across the two transistors is split evenly

where it was split even before.

But right now, the current passing through each one is 27 milligrams.

Now, of course, we could get rid of these two resistors here because the simulator treats the dual

transistors identically.

But as you mentioned, in real world, no two transistors are exactly identical, even if they have

the same part number.

Since most of the current are passing through these two transistors, make sure that you mount them

on a heating.

Now, I have a little slider here on the right, which you cannot see, and I can't use it to increase

or decrease the value of the potential meter.

So by changing the value of the potential meter, we can decrease.

Or increase the output voltage.

But how does this work by changing the voltage of Couture's bass?

We also change the voltage of the base of Cuchi.

Why?

Because basically we are playing with the voltage drop between the connector and meter of Q1.

Then Q1 is in cut off mode as it is right now, because the base of Q2 is only set at 250 to milliwatt,

no current is flowing through it, right.

So the collector RAIM voltage will be maximum around fifty two words.

There is only around two hundred seventy millivolts voltage drop across the dial because the current

flowing through it is very small.

Still enough to place Q3 in forward active mode.

The moment we increase the base voltage of Q1, Q2 will turn on more and more, decreasing the base

voltage of Q3.

Why?

Because Q1 is pulling Q3 base towards ground.

So as we return on Q1, more and more the voltage drop between its connector and ammeter is getting

lower and lower, which causes Q3 base to decrease towards ground.

And remember, current always takes the path of least resistance.

So even if you have this connection here, the path towards ground is at the lower resistance.

Of course, depending on how much Q1 is turned on since the base voltage of Q3 is decreasing, so does

the output voltage.

Why?

Because at the end of Q3 is getting lower as well.

If the editor of Q3 is getting lower, the base of Q4 and Q5 is getting lower as well.

And if the base of Q4 and Q4 is decreasing, so does their ammeter voltage.

Simple enough, right?

Then the circuit outputs its maximum voltage, which is 50 volts, the base of Q1 one is placed at 252

millibars, which is because of the voltage divided effect.

The input voltage of the voltage divider is 50 volts or one is 10 km and R2 is 50 ohm.

Now, if you solve the equation, you will get 250 to millivolts.

However, when Q2 is fully turned on, as it is right now, so it's Q1, the base wattages, one point

three words and the output voltage is also one point three was one of the main drawback of the circuit

is that the output cannot drop lower than one point three words because otherwise Q3 and Q4 will turn

off and then the feedback network will start working.

Remember that good power supplies can output a voltage as close as zero point one voids if it's necessary.

But for that, the power supply requires a little bit more complex circuitry.

Now, one more thing I want to explain, why do you think we use an illington pair as feedback?

Well, the reason why we use two transistors instead of one is to decrease the amount of current required

on the base of Q2.

We don't want to steal any current from the output.

Right.

What I mean is that we try to minimize the current required for the feedback network.

And as we know, a Darlington's pair amplification or bitta is equal to BITA one times B2.

This means that the base current of Q2 can be a bit at times lower.

So if both betas are 100 as it is right now, then the base current can be 100 times lower than if we

were to use only one transistor.

Right now, Q2 is fully turned on.

Right.

And notice that the base current of Q2 is equal to nine point seven micrograms and the quarter current

of Q1 is equal to 98 mediums.

So the collector current of Q1 is a 1000 times higher than the base of Q2.

All right, thank you for watching and see you at course again.