Hello, guys.

We come back, the main objective of this course is to find out how to convert 220 water supply into

a plus 12 volts and minus 12 all supply.

These are called us a dual power supply us.

We get positive and negative to avoid words, power supply at the same time.

And this can be achieved in simple three steps.

Firstly, 220 volts AC is converted into 12 words AC by using simple step down transformer.

Secondly, the output of this transformer is given to the rectifier circuit, which will convert the

AC supply into the sea supply.

The output of the rectifier circuit contains ripples and to filter out these ripples, capacitor of

2200 micro ferid of 25 volts is used.

Lastly, the output of the capacitor that is pure DC is given to voltage regulator seven eight 12 seven

nine 12, which will regulate the output voltage plus swearwords and minus 12 was DC.

Despite the change in input voltage.

As you can see, the transformer that we use is not as simple as that of transformer.

These type of transformer is Kohler's center, that transformer because it is designed to provide two

separate secondary voltages.

You know, a central transformer, as the name implies, the tipping point is in the exact center of

the secondary relighting, providing a common connection for two equal but opposite secondary voltages.

With the center that grounded the output, we will be positive in nature with respect to the ground,

while the voltage on the other secondary wehbe will be negative and opposite in nature.

That is, they are 180 electrical degrees out of phase with each other.

How the output voltage is calculated on the two secondaries is no different from that of an ordinary

transformer.

Primary and secondary voltages, currents and turns ratios are all calculated the same.

This image shows how a central transformer looks in real life.

The primary consists of two wires, while the secondary has three wires where T2 is the ground.

So, for example, a 24 Worrell's centered transformer will measure 24 volts across the outer two taps

and travels AC from each outer tap to the center tap.

These two warboys a supplies are 180 degrees out of phase if each other does, making it easy to derive

positive and negative towards D.C. power supplies from them.

And the advantage of using a central transformer is that we can get both plus travel and minus where

this supply using only one transformer.

Of course it would output any other voltages depending on the input voltage and the terms ratio.

Alright, now that we have plus minus 12 watts AC, we have to feed that into a full rectifier.

So as you can see, the outer two terminals of the center transformer are connected to the bridge rectifiers

illiquid.

In order to convert the AC to DC, we can't make two types of rectifiers.

One is Half-Breed Rectifier.

A second is full bridge rectifier in a hospital, rectifier output wattages half of the input voltage.

So for example, if input voltages 24 would then output these high voltages travels.

And the number of diode used in these type of rectifier is to, you know, Fulbright's rectifier, the

number of diodes is four and it is connected as shown here.

And the output voltage is the same as the input voltage.

They're not quite the same.

The output is less with two diode drops because if you look at how Bridgitte fireworks only two diodes

conduct in the same time.

So you should take this voltage produced by diodes into account.

Sverre.

So in our example, footbridge rectifiers used, this means that the number of diodes is for an input

and output.

Voltage of the rectifier is 24 volts adc we ripples need of course.

In this satellite power supply circuit, diabetes rectifiers made up of six amps for power diodes,

rating of these dieties six amps and 400 volts, it is not necessary to use this much of a high capacity

diode.

But because of safety and flexibility purpose, high current capacity diode is used well, generally

because of surges.

In current, it is possible to damage the diode if we use low and operating diode.

Now the output of the rectifier is not a pure DC, right?

It contains ripples.

So in order to flatten these voltage out, in other words, to remove ripples from the supply filter,

capacitors are used.

So to filter capacitor operating 2200 micro and 25 words are used as shown in the circuit.

The connection of both capacitors are such that the common terminal of the capacitors is connected directly

to the center terminal of the center.

That transformer now this capacitor will get charged up to 12 was WDC as both are connected with the

common terminal of a transformer.

Furthermore, the capacitors will remove the ripples from the DC supply and give a pure DC output.

But the output of both capacitors are not regulated.

So to me, the supply regulated output of the capacitors are given to the voltage regulator is.

The next important thing is to regulate the output voltage.

Otherwise the output voltage will be wearing as per the input voltage changes and also the output voltage

will drop.

The moment you connect the load because of the voltage wider effect and we talked about this issue in

the beginning of the chapter.

Now, if we need to have all this output, then I see seven, eight, 12 is used.

However, if required output voltages plus five words, for example, then seven eight zero five is

used.

So the last two digits of the AC gives the output voltage rating.

Third-Class digit shows whether the voltage is positive or negative for positive voltage.

The number eight is used for negative voltage.

Number nine number is used.

So I see seven, eight, 12 is used for plus 12 votes regulation and I see seven, nine, 12 is used

for minors to avoid voltage regulation.

So as you can see, compared to the alarm 317, which is an adjustable regulator, these ICS are not

adjustable.

They can only output on certain voltage.

So they are great to use when you need one fixed voltage somewhere in your circuit.

What are the implications of a dual power supply?

You might ask?

Well, actually there are many.

So, for example, if DC motors are used as a load, then for a plus wells, it will rotate in a clockwise

direction and for minus 12 hours it will rotate in the opposite direction.

For example, motors which are used in toys like cars, buses, etc., will move forward in case of

plus tablets and it will move reverse in case of minus travel.

It's another use case of dual power supply.

Is Vandersloot with you are powering contains operational amplifiers.

Well, operation amplifiers need two power sources because the open up must operate in both polarities

of the incoming signal.

Without the negative source, the EMP won't swing into action during the negative cycle of the signal.

So that signal portions output will be clipped.

That is, remain at the ground itself, which is obviously not recommended.

If it's not clear how an operational amplifier works, then stay tuned, because starting with the next

chapter, we will demystify how an operation amplifier works and will be plenty of surface.

You don't see you there.