Now that we understood the basics of Band Pass filter, let's see how to build a band pass filter using

a register and inductor and the capacitor.

The circuit design for such a Belfast filter is shown here.

The center frequency of events filter, which is also termed the resonant peak, can be formulated by

using the below equation.

Where else is that in terms of the inductor and see is the capacitance of the capacitor?

The frequency response curve of the band pass filter is shown here.

The signal is attenuated at low frequencies, with the output increasing at a slope of 20 decibels per

decade until the frequency reaches the lower cutoff frequency.

After the lower cutoff frequency, the output will increase with the increase or frequency before rate

of minus 20 decibel per decade and attains maximum gain.

And this gain is constant until it reaches the higher cutoff frequency.

After the higher cutoff frequency, the output decreases at a slope of minus 20 decibel per decade.

Previously, we have seen that the phase shift of First Order filter is 90 degree.

We know that the Band Pass filter is a second older filter, so the phase shift is twice of the first

order filter that is 180 degree.

The phase angle will vary with the increase of the frequency at the center frequency, the output and

input signals are in phase with each other below the resonance frequency.

The output signal leads the input signal and about resonant frequency.

The output signal lags they would signal.

The amplitude of the input signal is always greater than the output signal.

The center frequency or resonant frequency at which the output gain is maximum can also be obtained

by calculating the geometric mean of lower and upper cutoff frequency.

Where F r is the resonant frequency or central frequency.

F age is the upper minus three decibel cutoff frequency and f l is the lower minus three decibel cutoff

frequency.

Bent, as filters are widely used in wireless transmitters and receivers.

The main function of such a filter in a transmitter is to limit the banned beef of the output signal

to the band allocated for the transmission.

This prevents the transmitter from interfering with other stations in a receiver.

A bent best filter allows signals the final selected range of frequencies to be heard or decoded while

preventing signals at unwanted frequencies from getting to.

In both transmitting and receiving applications where design meant that filters having the optimum bandwidth

maximize the number of signal transmitters that can exist in a system while minimizing the interference

or competition among signals.

Now an offer on the theory, and let's try to simulate an RLC band pass filter in our simulator.

All right, here we are.

Our Band Pass filter is composed of a resistor of 250 ohms and inductor of 500 million.

And a capacitor of 32 micro threads.

We also have a function generator that will generate a sound wave starting from 11 hertz, and we'll

go all the way up to 150 hertz before we start the simulation.

We need to know that based on the value of the components, the center frequency or the rhythm of the

frequency of this band, that filter is 45 hertz.

This means that this filter will pass a range of frequency close to the original frequency of the SC

pair.

When it gets close to the resonant frequency, the impedance of the SC pair increases, keeping the

output closer to the input.

All right, let's start the simulation and see if this filter does the job and really allows only the

signals to pass through viva frequency close to this resonant frequency of 45 hertz.

Note that the input voltage is a constant firewalled, so when the frequency gets closer to 45 hertz,

the amplitude of the output signal has to be close to five volts.

All right.

The simulation has started, and as you can see, the signal below 45 hertz is attenuated.

But as the frequency gets closer to 45 hertz, the amplitude starts increasing.

After the frequency passes 45 hertz, the signal starts to get attenuated again, so this means that

our bents filter works just fine.


