All right, guys, in this chapter, we'll be talking about filters, more specifically about passive

filters, there are passive and active filters, and the major difference between active and passive

filter is that an active filter uses active components like transistor and hemp for the filtering of

electronic signals against a passive filter, uses passive components like resistor, inductor and capacitor

to generate a signal of a particular band.

So both passive and active filters are used for the same purpose is just that active filters are a bit

better in doing it.

However, since we haven't learned about transistors nor about options in this chapter, we will deal

only with passive filters.

So let's start by discussing first what is actually a filter or filtering a signal.

Well, you see, it is sometimes desirable to have surrogates capable of selectively filtering one frequency

or radio frequencies out of a mix of different frequencies in.

Let's say we have some audio signal at the frequency of around five kilohertz.

If you have played around with a spectrum analyzer, you have probably seen graphs like this where a

spectrum analyzer, if you don't know what it is, it looks like an oscilloscope.

But instead of plotting out the variations of voltage over time, it measures the magnitude which is

measured in what of an input signal versus frequency within the frequency range of the instrument.

So we don't know the amplitude of these audio waveform, but let's assume that it's amplitude which

is measured in what is quite low and we want to amplify it and drive a loud speaker.

So you set yourself up, you amplify this audio waveform and you realize that the quality of the audio

is bad, meaning that you hear some undesirable high frequency noise on top of the audio waveform.

What you don't realize is that somewhere in the circuits, like, for example, switching more power

supply generated a noise that somehow got induced in your audio waveform.

So by mistake, you have amplified the desired waveform along with undesirable noise signal and what

you got in the end.

These are noisy audio waveform.

In order to solve this problem, we can't place a filter between the input and the amplifier.

And this filter will basically allow the desired audio waveform to pass through and will block, or

in other words, it will filter out the noise.

A circuit designed to perform this frequency selection is called a filter circuit or simply a filter.

A filter is a circuit capable of passing certain frequencies while attenuating other frequencies as

a result of filter can extract important frequencies from signals that also contain undesirable or irrelevant

frequencies.

In the field of electronics, there are many practical applications for filters, examples include in

radio communications, like, for example, filters Aniba radio receivers to only see the desired signal

while rejecting all other signals, assuming that the other signals have different frequency content.

Filters are also extensively used in D.C. power supplies, so filters are used to eliminate undesired

high frequencies.

That is noise that are present on the D.C. input lines in all the electronics we usually use across

crossover network, which is a network of filters, and they are used to channel low frequency audio

to woofers, mid-range frequencies to mid-range speakers and high frequency sounds to tweeter's.

Now the four primary types of filters include the Lopez filter, the hype's filter, the band pass filter

and the NAHJ filter, or the band reject or bandsaw filter.

Take note, however, that the terms low and high do not refer to any absolute values or frequency,

but rather they are relative values of respect to the cutoff frequency.

Well, more cutoff.

Rachman's later.

Now, this figure here gives a general idea of how each of these four fighters works, so we have our

input signal, which we get by summing up three different signals.

The first one is a low frequency signal.

The last one is a high frequency signal, and the second one is somewhere between the two frequencies.

Now, if you pass this original signal through a Lopez filter, what you get ideally is only the low

frequency part of the original waveform.

If you pass it through a high pass filter, ideally the low frequency and the middle frequencies will

be removed, leaving only the high frequency signal to pass through a banters filter is a device that

passes frequencies within a certain range and rejects, or, in other words, attenuates frequencies

outside that range.

A notch filter, on the other hand, which is also called the bad stop filter, is a filter that passes

most frequencies and altered.

But Attenuates does in a specific range to very low levels.

It is the opposite of a pass filter.

A large filter is a band style filter with a narrow band.

So what you have to know is that filters in general are electronic circuits which perform signal processing

functions specifically to remove unwanted frequency components from the signal or to enhance what it

wants or both.

In other words, they are designed to be frequency selective so that they can reduce the signal amplitude

at some frequencies but do not effect signals at others.

So let's start discussing in more detail about a Lopez filter, like how it is constructed, how it

works, et cetera, but we will do that in the next course.

So see you there.