In this course, we will learn about Lopez wielders, Lopez filter is a filter which passes low frequency

signals and blocks or impedes high frequency signals.

In other words, low frequency signals go through much easier and with less resistance and high frequency

signals have a much harder time getting through.

Which is why it's a Lopez filter.

Lopez filters can be constructed using resistors with either capacitors or in others, a Lopez filter

composed of a resistor.

And the capacitor is called a Lopez or C filter and a Lopez filter before it.

Resistor and inductor is called Lopez or El Filter.

We will go through both of these type of circuits in this course and show how both our C and Si Lopez

filters are constructed.

Both circuits have the effect of passing through low frequency signals while impeding high frequency

ones.

So a Lopez or C filter again is a filter circuit composed of a resistor and capacitor which passes through

low frequency signals while blocking high frequency signals to create a Lopez Arcy filter.

The resistor is placed in a series to the input signal, and the capacitor is placed in parallel to

the input signal such as shown here.

So if this set up, this circuit is a Lopez filter.

Now, let me ask you a question.

Why do you think that the circuit passes the low frequency signals and filters out the high frequency

signals by shunting them to ground?

That's very easy.

The reason of it is because the capacitor is a reactive device, which has something called capacity

reactance.

We already know what capacity reactance is, right?

It is measured in ohms and it varies with the frequency a capacitor offers, deferring resistance to

signallers of different frequencies entering through it.

A capacity is a reactive device which offers very high resistance to low frequency or these signals,

and it offers low resistance to high frequency signals as it offers very high resistance to these signals

or low frequency signals in this circuit.

It will block DC from entering and pass them off to an alternating part of the circuit which is shown

to the right by this arrow.

High frequency signals will go through the capacitor since the capacitor offers them a very low resistance

path.

Remember that current always takes the path of least resistance by saying that a capacitor represents

a low resistance in a circuit for high frequency signals.

They will take the path through the capacitor, while low frequency signals will take an alternative

low resistance path.

Now that we've gone through what Lopez Arcy filter is, let's go over a practical example of Building

one.

Let's say that we want to build a Lopez filter, which passes all frequencies below fifteen point nine

kilohertz but blocks all the signals with a frequency higher than fifteen point nine kilohertz.

So where shall we start?

Well, in order to build a circuit, we first have to understand what the cut off frequency is for a

filter for a Lopez filter.

It is the frequency at which the output is three decibels lower than the input.

Basically, the cut off frequency for a Lopez filter defines the frequency until which signals can pass

through without being attenuated and signallers with frequencies higher than the frequency will be attenuated.

By attenuated, I mean, they will be reduced inaptitude.

And as you can see from this graph, the further away you go from the cut off frequency, the higher

will be the attenuation.

Now, in an ideal world, the graph ideally would look like this signals that their frequency is lower

than the cut off frequency are passed through the filter and signals that have frequencies higher than

the cut.

Our frequency will be shunted to ground so they won't get passed through the filter.

So the transition from Pazz Band and Stop Band happens in an instant.

However, since we don't live in an ideal world, the graph looks something it is now important.

Fact to remember is that the reason why this cut off frequency is so special is because this is the

exact frequency than the reactors.

So the capacitor, which is measured in homes, of course, becomes equal to.

A resistance of the resistance, but this frequency, the output signal is attenuated to 70 percent

of the signal value or minus three decibel of the input.

In other words, the voltage after the Lopez filter will be equal to around zero point seven times the

peak voltage of the input voltage.

And as the signal frequencies goes beyond the cut off frequency, it will be more and more attenuated

since the reactors of the capacitor gets lower and lower.

So how do we calculate this cutoff frequency?

Is there any formula for it?

Yes, there is.

And so the formula to find the cut off frequency point of an RC circuit is this one.

So the frequency is equal to one or two P or see where F is the cutoff frequency or is the resistance

of the resistor?

And see, is the capacitors capacitance?

What we wanted to achieve is to build a Lopez filter, which can pass all frequencies below fifteen

point nine kilohertz and attenuate all frequencies about fifteen point nine kilohertz.

This means that the cutoff frequency should be fifteen point nine kilohertz.

Right now, usually when we design a Lopez filter, we first choose the value of the resistor.

We don't want it to be too high as it will limit the current flow drastically as it is in series with

the signal.

Right.

And we don't want it to be too low because then you would need to choose a capacitor that is perhaps

too big and bulky.

So that's a very common resistor, which has a value of one km's.

Now, using this equation, the only thing is left to find out is the value of the capacitor, which

is the only unknown value in the equation.

Since I have already made the calculations, I will spare you some time.

And the final value of the capacitor is 10 Farad's.

So we have a Lopez filter before resister of Wallkill and the capacitor of 10 Denverites using these

values, we get a cut frequency of fifteen point nine kilohertz.

This means that all frequencies, about fifteen point nine kilohertz are attenuated.

And as you get further, which means higher from the fifteen point eight kilohertz region, the attenuation

will be greater and greater frequencies below fifteen point eight kilohertz are passed through without

attenuation.

So if we input an AC signal into the circuit from the function generator and make the signal a low frequency

such as 10 hertz, the circuit will pass the signal to output almost completely attenuated.

This is because low frequency signals do not take the path of the capacitor.

You can check this if you have an oscilloscope.

For example, if you will now increase the frequency of the signal to 30 kilohertz, the signal will

pass through to output with great attenuation.

This is because high frequency signals go through the capacitor and not to output because capacitor

is low resistance to them.

One more thing left for us to do is a simulation.

So let's do that.

But now with different values.

All right, here we are.

This time we are using a 187 on resistor along with a dual microworld capacitor.

If you don't have the cut off frequency for the circuit is around four hundred twenty five hertz.

The signal, a generator that we are using here will output an easy signal starting from 20 hertz and

will go up to three kilohertz in a matter of seconds.

So just notice how the output signal shown here will differ compared to the input as the frequency of

the signal generator increases.

All right, so the simulation has started, and as you can see, the output signals amplitude is equal

to the input one.

So there's not any attenuation.

So right now, we have reached the cut off frequency where the output signals amplitude is around 70

percent of the input one and starting from this point, as you can see.

As pregnancy increases, the attenuation becomes greater and greater.

Now, after the signal has reached the maximum of frequency, it will go back to 20 hertz.

That's why you see that attenuation is getting weaker and weaker.