All right, so the previous course we saw that using a resistor and a capacitor, we managed to build

a Lopez filter.

And the reason why it's called the Lopez filter is because it passes low frequency signals and high

frequency signals are attenuated.

To be more specific, the cutoff frequency of this filter is around four hundred twenty five hertz.

So it means that frequency is below 425 hertz, are passed through without attenuation and frequency

is about 425 hertz are attenuated, at least in an ideal world.

This is what would happen.

However, in real world, when the frequency of the signal reaches 425 hertz, the output signal will

be equal to around zero point seven times the peak voltage of the inputs signal.

And the signal gets further and further from four hundred twenty five hertz that inflation becomes greater

and greater.

Another way of building a Lopez filter is by using an inductor instead of a capacitor, and the position

of the two components are switched.

Now, the reactive element, which is the inductor, is in series with the signal while the resistor

in parallel.

So this circuit is called a slow pass or filter.

Now, why does the circuit behaves like a Lopez filter?

How it works is based on the principle of inductive reactants.

We already talked about inductive reactants, right?

Basically, it's the resistance of the inductor which changes based on the frequency of the signal passing

through the inductor.

Unlike a resistor, which is a nonreactive device, an inductor offers deferring impedance values to

signallers of differing frequencies, just as capacitors do.

However, unlike capacitors, inductors offer very high resistance to high frequency signals and offers

lower resistance to low frequency signals.

So it's the opposite of a capacitor.

Therefore, the placement of the resistors are switched in our C and our air filter circuits the graph

that shows the amplitude versus frequency.

The same, however, the equation of the cut off frequency is different.

Since we don't have a capacitor anymore.

The cut off frequency of this filter can be calculated using this equation where F is the frequency

or is the resistance of the register and L is the inductance of the inductor.

Again, the cut off frequency is that frequency at which the output voltage equals around 70 percent

of the input voltage about the frequency.

The output voltage is lower than 70 percent of the input and vice versa.

In the next course we will learn where D minus three decimal comes from.

But for now, just remember that at minus three Decebal, the output voltage is equal to around zero

point seven times the input voltage.

Now let's go over a practical example of building an RL Lopez filter.

The circuit that we are going to build consists of 470 millenary and other, along with a 10 kilogram

resistor.

So the formula to find the cut off frequency points of an aura circuit is this one.

And by doing the math with the values shown here, we get the frequency of three point thirty nine kilohertz.

This means that all frequencies about three point thirty nine kilohertz are attenuated.

And as you get further from the three point thirty nine kilohertz region, the attenuation becomes greater

and greater frequencies below three point thirty nine kilohertz are passed through without attenuation.

So again, you can check this on an oscilloscope to see that very low frequency signals are passed through

to output.

An attenuated y high frequency signals undergo attenuation to see how a Lopez Obrador works in a circuit.

Let's go to our simulator and here we are.

So our signal generator will output a five words signal starting from 20 hertz and will go up to three

kilohertz.

Then we have 265 millenary doctor and a one kilogram resistor with this setup.

If you do the math, the cutoff frequencies.

Six hundred hertz.

So if I start the simulator, notice that as long as the frequency is below 600 hertz, there's no any

attenuation of the output.

At the frequency of 600 hertz, the output is around 70 percent of the input, and as we move further

and further, the attenuation becomes greater and greater.