All right, in the previous courses, we saw that the cut off frequency, the output signal is 70 percent

lower than the input signal, or we can also say that the output is three decibels lower than the input.

So what is this minus three decibel and where does it come from?

You see, they're designing or working with amplifier and filter circuits, some of the numbers used

in the calculations can be very large or very small.

For example, if we cascade to amplifier stages together with power or voltage gains of, say, 20 and

36 respectively, they're the total gain would be 20 times 36, which is seven hundred twenty.

Likewise, if you cascade together to first order Archerfield a circuits with automations of zero point

seven each, then the total attenuation would be zero point seven times zero point seven, which is

equal to around zero point five.

Now, unlike voltage or current, which is measured in volts and emperors, respectively, the decibel

or simply debe for short is just a ratio of two values.

Well, actually the ratio of one value against another known or fixed value.

So therefore the decibel is a dimensionless quantity but does have the bell as its unit after the telephone

inventor Alexander Graham Bell.

The ratio of any to values where one is fixed or known and of the same quantity of units, whether power,

voltage or current, can be represented using decimals where Dessy means one tenth of a bell.

Clearly there are ten decibels per bell, or we can say that one bell is equal to 10 decibels.

Now, what you have to know is that the decibel is commonly used to show the ratio of power change and

is defined as the value, which is ten times the base, ten logarithm of two power levels.

So for example, one what to ten?

What is the same ratio as 10 what to 100 watts?

That is ten to one.

So while there is a large difference in the number of Watts nine compared to 90, the decimal ratio

would be exactly the same.

Hopefully that we can see that the decibel is a ratio used for comparing and calculating levels of power

change and not the power itself.

As a result, if you have two quantities of power like P1 and P2, the ratio of these two values is

represented by this equation.

Where P1 represents the input power and PITU represents the output power.

So let's do an exercise to understand these decibels better.

Let's say that an audio amplifier delivers 100 watts into an eight on speaker load when fed by a 100

milliwatt input signal.

Calculate the power of the amplifier in decibels.

So we write down that the power gain measured in decibels is equal to 10 times log base than of Peter

Overby, one where P2 is the output power and P one is the input power.

Now we know that the output power is 100 watts and the input power is 100 million watts.

So let's place these values into the equation so we get ten times like base ten of 100, over zero point

one because 100 milliwatt is zero point one watts.

Now, if you do the math, this equation will be equal to 30, 30, what, 30 decimal, we can express

the power gain of the amplifier in units of decibels regardless of its input or output values as an

amplifier delivering 40 watts output for 40 milliwatts input.

We also have a power gain of 30 decibels and so on.

One of the advantages of using the bass to logarithm ratio of two powers is that they're dealing with

multiple amplifiers or filter or attenuate or stages cascaded together.

We can simply add or subtract.

They are decimal values instead of multiplying or dividing their linear values.

So if you have two amplifier stages in a series where the first one amplifies the signal in power by

100 and the second one by four, then the total amplification of these two circuits combined is 100

times four, which is four hundred.

Now an amplification of 100 inpower is equivalent to a power gain of 20 decibels, while an amplification

of four is equivalent to a power gain of six decibels.

As a result, the total amplification of these two circuits combined is 280 decibels plus six decibel

or 26 decibels.

So this is clearly an advantage of using decibel instead of multiplying these linear values.

Now let's get to our Lopez filter in Tony textbooks, you will often read that the cut off frequency,

the output power is half the input power.

This means that the ratio of the output power over the output power is zero point five.

Right.

So the power, again, invisible is equal to ten times larger base than of zero point five, which if

you do the math, is exactly minus three decimal.

So at minus three decibels, which is the cut off frequency, the output power will be exactly half

the input power.

But what about voltage?

Why is the output voltage equal to zero point seven times the input voltage?

Well, let's start from this equation.

So instead of power again, we calculated the voltage gain.

The power can be expressed as voltage and resistance.

Right.

So we get ten times log base, 10 of we to add the power of the two divided by resistance all over.

We won by the power of two over the same resistors.

Now the two are in the equation, can disappear.

So we get that log base turn off with you at the power of two over.

We won the power of two.

If you know basic math, this equation is actually equal to 20 times log base, 10 of which over every

one.

As we already know, the cut off frequency, the output voltage is zero point seven times the input

voltage, so this ratio here should be equal to zero point seven.

If you do the math, you will get a voltage gain of minus three decimal.

So we have learned that the cut off frequency, the upward power is half the people power and the voltage

is 70 percent of the input voltage.

Decibels represents a logarithmic change in terms of power, voltage or current, we can construct a

table to show the specific gaze and their equivalent decibel values as shown here.

From this table, we can see that a zero decibel, the ratio gain of power, voltage and current is

equal to one.

This means that the circuit produces no gain or loss between the input and the opposing us.

So zero decimal corresponds to a unity gain that is equal to one and not zero gain at minus three decimal.

The output power ratio is zero point five, so the output power is half the output power, while the

output voltage is around 70 percent of the input voltage.