In the previous course, we had designed a Lopez filter, which has a cutoff frequency of 100 kilohertz

right.

We chose this frequency in the belief that this will be good enough to remove these 500 kilohertz noise

signal.

But how do we know if our filter has any success in removing this noise?

And how do we know that our filter doesn't attenuate the voltage of this audio signal?

Well, let's find out.

We can calculate the theoretical behavior of a low pass filter by using a frequency dependent version

of a typical voltage divider calculation.

The output of a resistive voltage divider is shown here.

If you don't remember this equation, please check the voltage divider, of course, that can be found

in the first chapter.

The RCA filter uses an equivalent structure, but instead of R2, we have a capacitor, right?

First, we replace R2 only in the numerator with the reactors of the capacitor.

Next, we need to calculate the magnitude of the total impedance and plays that in the denominator.

As a result, we will get this equation here.

The reluctance of a capacitor indicates the amount of opposition to current flow, isn't it?

But unlike resistance, the amount of opposition depends on the frequency of the signal passing through

the capacitor.

As a result, we have to calculate the reactors at a specific frequency and the equation that we use

for this will be this one.

I have to repeat this again, but if you don't remember this equation, please check the reactors course.

Now, when we tried in the previous course to design a Lopez filter before cutoff frequency of 100 kilohertz,

we chose a capacitor for value of 10 nano ferrets.

And after a little calculation, we got a resistor with a value of approximately 100 60 ohms, right?

We will assume that the amplitude of the input voltage is one world so that we can simply remove this

from the calculation.

First, let's calculate the amplitude of the output voltage or the audio signal frequency, which is

five kilohertz right.

In order to calculate the output voltage first, we need to calculate the reactants of the capacitor

at five kilohertz and inserting all the values in this equation.

We will get a reactants of three thousand one hundred eighty three ohms.

Now that we know this, the output voltage at five kilohertz will be zero point nine nine nine.

What's the amplitude of designer babies essentially unchanged?

And that's good, since our intention was to preserve the sine wave while suppressing the noise.

When I say sine wave, I mean the audio signal, which is present at five kilohertz, right?

This one word here is not the voltage of this battery.

Don't confuse yourself.

It's the amplitude of the audio signal.

This circuit is here just to help you to understand where this equation came from.

Now, let's see how successful the filter will attenuate the noise component.

First, let's calculate the reactors of the competitor at 500 kilohertz.

And as you can see, we will get a value of thirty one point eight ohms.

After inserting this value into the equation, we will get an output voltage of zero point one hundred

ninety five volts.

So this means that we successfully managed to reduce the noise amplitude with about 20 percent of its

original value.