So what happens if you have a Lopez filter and you place an identical filter easier to defeat?

This is what we call a second order Lopez filter.

Now, why would you do something like this?

You see, sometimes a single stage may not be enough to remove all the unwanted pregnancies.

What I mean by that, we already seen the frequency response of a Lopez filter.

Right.

And we know that the cutoff frequency is situated here.

However, what about the slope?

In many electronics textbooks, you will see that a first order filter like this one has a slope which

is equal to minus 20 decibels per decade.

What does this mean?

First, you have to understand that in the frequency response graph of a first order, Lopez filter

the x axis, which is the frequency increases logarithmic.

So instead of one, two, three, four, five, etc, it increases like one, 10, 100, 1000, etc..

Here's another frequency response of a Lopez filter.

And here you can clearly see that the frequency on the x axis increases logarithmic.

So each frequency point is a multiply of ten of the previous one.

Now, just like any other first order filter slope, this one two is equal to minus 20 decibels per

decade.

But what is a decade in this case?

Well, a decade is a unit for measuring frequency ratios on a logarithmic scale, with one decade corresponding

to a ratio of ten between two frequencies.

I mean, an order of magnitude difference.

So one decade is the ratio between these dual frequencies.

Actually, that is the Latin word for 10.

In this case, decade means 10 multiplies on the frequency axis.

When the plot shows minus 20 decibels per decade, it means that over a range of ten multiplies in frequency.

The gain will drop by 20 decibels.

So between one kilohertz and thank you notes, there's a minus 20 decibel difference in the game between

10 kilohertz and 100 kilohertz.

Again, there is a difference of minus 20 decibels in the game.

So I hope now you can see where this minus 20 decibel per decade comes from.

Now, sometimes it happens that we are not really satisfied with the steepness of the slope.

Again, an idea Lopez filter would have a frequency response as shown here before the cut off frequency

or the frequencies are passed through without attenuation and signallers with frequency higher than

the cutoff are completely attenuated.

So what can we do in order to increase the steepness of the slope?

Ha, this is where a second order Lopez filter comes into play if two or three stages are cascaded together,

as shown here, the resulting RC filter circuit would be known as an add order filter with a slope of

end times minus 20 decibel per decade, where N is a number of our stages.

Since we have two stages, the slope will be equal to two times minus 20 decibels per decade or minus

40 decibel per decade.

Now the frequency response of a second order Lopez filter compared to a first order, one can be seen

here.

The blue line shows the frequency response of a single RC Lopez filter, and the purple one shows the

frequency response of a second order Lopez filter having two or three stages in series.

The slope, as you can see, is much steeper, which means that frequency is higher than the cutoff

frequency will be greater attenuated then for a first order.

Lopez Filter.

One more thing I want to tell you is that as you can see on this graph, the minus three decibel point

of a second on the Lopez filter has been moved.

It's at a different frequency than if you would have only one single or C Lopez filter.

So how do we calculate it?

It's very easy.

By using this formula, you can calculate the overall cutoff frequency regardless of how many stages

you have in series.

And in this equation is the number of filters.

You have a series.

Again, the filters must be identical.

Otherwise, this formula will not be valid, nor this formula which calculates the slope of end stages.

So the cutoff frequency of any stages in a series is equal to the cut off frequency of one filter times

square root of two or the power of one or N minus one.

Now let's do a simple exercise.

We have this RC filter and based on these two values, the filter will have a cutoff frequency of around

five hundred thirty hertz.

If we place an identical filter in series with the first one, the slope of the overall filter becomes

minus 40 decibels per decade instead of minus 20 decibels per decade as it was before.

So the attenuation will be greater after the cutoff frequency.

But where is the cutoff frequency situated?

Let's use this formula so the cut off frequency of these second order filter is equal to 530 square

root of two of the power of one or two since we have two filters, minus one.

Now, if you do the math, the final result is 341 hertz.

So even though the original cutoff frequency was five hundred thirty hertz, by cascading one more in

series, the cutoff frequency has decreased to 341 hertz.

This is not a problem is just something that you have to remember when you cascade two or more filters

a series.