Hello and welcome back.

There was an era where we're making a telephone call over distant places.

One had to put his mouth very close to the transmitter, speak very slowly and very loudly, so that

message can be heard clearly by the person at the other end.

Today, we can even make video calls over worldwide with high quality resolutions, right?

The secret of such tremendous development of technology lies in a surgical filter theory and transmission

line.

Three electrical filters, as you might know, are circuits that are only selected band of frequencies.

Why attenuating other unwanted pregnancies?

One of such filters is High Pass Filter.

If you are already familiar with the concept of Lopez Filter, this course will be easy for you to understand.

So let's begin.

A high pass filter is a filter, which Percy's high frequency signals and blocks or impedes low frequency

signals.

In other words, high frequency signals go through much easier, and low frequency signals have a much

harder getting through, which is why it's a high pass filter.

High pass filters can be constructed using resistors with either capacitors or inductors, a high pass

filter composed of a register, and the capacitor is called the High Pass RC filter and the high pass

filter before register, and an indicator is called a high pass or air filter.

We will go through both of these type of circuits show how both RC and red hyper filters are constructed.

Both circuits have the effect of passing through high frequency signals while impeding low frequency

ones.

So I say let's start by discussing about high pass RC filter.

A high pass filter, again is a filter which passes through high frequency signals composed of a register

and the capacitor to create the hype RC filter.

The capacitor is placed in series with the power signal entering the circuit, such as shown in this

circuit diagram.

Also, capacitor is a reactor device, it offers differing resistance to signals of different frequencies

entering through it.

A capacitor is a reactive device which offers very high resistance to low frequency or DC signals and

lower resistance to high frequency signals.

So because competitors offer very high resistance to low frequency or DC signals, it means that the

signal trying to pass through it will be blocked.

So this type of filter only allows high frequency signals to pass through and not DC.

These type of GPUs that also functions as a coupling capacitor because it copies the AC signal from

one part of the circuit to another while blocking the DC.

There are a lot of circulating with copying capacitors are present.

So if you don't quite understand the function of a copying capacitor, don't worry because we will shortly

discuss about it in more details.

High pass filters are very common and are used in many type of circuit setups, was a circuit in which

they are used are a microphone and circuit.

Microphones are devices which need both DC and AC signals in order to work.

Microphones need DC power in order to have the power to turn on and be able to operate, and they record

easy signals such as human speech, music or noises, right?

As a result, they deal with both types of signals, right?

The DC is only needed to power the microphone on and should not appear on the output with the easy signal.

The DC is for power only and should not be mixed with the audio signal.

So topaz the easy signal to and block the DC.

We use the high pass filter so that only the AC signal appears on the output.

Now that we have gone through what the hype has filter is, let's go over a practical example and build

one.

To build a high pass filter, the components we will use are a function generator.

10.

None offered ceramic capacitor and the 100 Ohm resistor.

So the formula to calculate the frequency of an RTA circuit is this one here.

And by doing the math, we got a frequency of one hundred fifty nine hertz.

Therefore, this RTC required will pass frequencies above one hundred fifty nine hertz.

We've barely know attenuation frequencies below one hundred fifty nine hertz will be attenuated the

farther away and lower it is from one hundred fifty nine hertz.

The greater the output signal is attenuated.

So if we put an easy signal into the circuit from the fashion generator and place a signal to a very

low frequency, such as 100 hertz or so, the capacitor will block out this voltage signal and it will

not go through the output or be greatly attenuated.

You can check this if you have an oscilloscope, if you know, increase the frequency of the signal

to 20 kilohertz, the signal will go through unimpeded not being blocked at all.

The capacitor will have no effect and all high frequency signals passed through unimpeded without any

attenuation.

This is a diagram showing what happens to low and high frequencies when fed into this high pass filter.

The low frequency signals, which are near zero hertz, are blocked and do not go past the capacitor.

Therefore, these signals do not show up the output.

On the other hand, the high frequency signals go through unimpeded and pass to output.

And this is why it's a high pass filter.

It passes through high frequencies, but block low frequencies.


