A high pass oral filter is a filter composed of her sister and inductor, which passes through high

frequency signatures to build a high pass or air filter, the inductor is placed in parallel to the

power source signals entering the circuit.

As shown in this diagram.

This circuit is a a high pass filter, which passes through high frequency signals, an inductor like

a capacitor is a reactive device, right?

Inductors offer different resistances to signals input into them of different frequencies.

Inductors pass low frequency signals with very little resistance while offering great resistance to

signals of high frequency.

As a result, low frequency signals pass through very easily without any attenuation, and high frequency

signals are either completely blocked or greatly attenuated as output.

Off of this principle described which is in reactors, is how the circuit operates.

Remember that quarantine circuit always takes the path of least resistance.

Seniors in others offer such a high resistance to high frequency signals.

Current signals of high frequency will not go through the inductor of the circuit.

They will take an alternative path and go through another part of the circuit, which offers lesser

resistance in this circuit, instead of the high frequency signals going through the inductor and down

to ground.

They go through to output and this is why the circuit is a high pass filter circuit, low frequency

signals.

However, we go through the inductor because insurers offer very low resistance to low frequency or

DC signals, right?

Therefore, low frequency konrath will take the path of going to the doctor to ground.

And now let's see how to build a high pass filter to build a high pass or a filter again, just like

the RC circuit.

We use a function generator, a register and the conductor for the circuit.

We will use a 470 her daughter and a 10kg resistor.

This circuit will form a high pass filter, passing through high frequency signals through to output

while filtering low frequency signals through the inductor.

Since the formula for a high pass filter, is this one here doing the math?

We will get a cutoff frequency of approximately three point thirty nine kilohertz.

This means all frequencies about three point thirty nine kilohertz will be passed through without attenuation,

while frequencies below this value will begin to get attenuated.

As you get lower and lower and further away from three point thirty nine kilohertz, there is a greater

attenuation as the frequency goes down.

Now, let's try to simulate this hype as our filter and see the output signal in comparison with the

input signal.

The cutoff frequency based on the value of the register and the inductor is 454 hertz.

So this means that everything below this frequency will be attenuated and everything about this frequency

will be passed.

This function generator here will change its frequency, starting from 21 Hertz all the way up to one

kilohertz.

The simulation has started, and as you can see, low frequency input signal below four hundred fifty

four hertz is ethanol weighted.

How do we know it's ethanol weighted?

Well, the input voltage is a constant firewalled, and the output voltage is less than five would.

As a result, the output voltage is attenuated by a certain amount.

US, the frequency increases, the output signals voltage is increasing as well.

Now that we crossed the frequency of four hundred fifty four Hertz notice how the output signal starts

increasing in voltage until it reaches nearly five volts.