Every analyst designer's nightmare would be to deal with noise in his circuit when it comes to switching

circuits or audio amplifiers or frequency signal circuits.

There's a very good chance for the circuit to be affected by noise signals out of the many ways to remove

noise from a circuit.

The most used one is called the filter circuit.

As the name suggests, the circuit will filter out the unwanted signals, which is the noise from the

actual signal.

There are many types of filter circuit, but the most commonly used and efficient one is the Band Pass

filter, which can be easily constructed using a pair of resistor and capacitors.

So in this material, we will learn about this bad pass filter.

The theory behind it and how it can be used in practical circuits.

We can say that the Band Pass filter is a combination of both low pass filter and the high best filter.

The name of the filter itself indicates that it allows only a certain band of frequencies and blocks

all the remaining frequencies in audio applications.

Sometimes it is necessary to pass only a certain radio frequencies.

This frequency range does not start at zero hertz or end, but very high frequency.

But these frequencies are female certain range, either wide or narrow.

These bands or frequencies are commonly termed as band vif.

A band pass filter can be obtained by cascading both high and low pass filters.

It has a huge application in audio amplifier circuits.

As I mentioned where the speaker has to play only the desired set of frequencies and ignore the rest.

There are two types of bents filters.

If the Tsilhqot'in involves some kind of external source of power like transistors, operation amplifiers,

etc., then the circuit is called Active Band Pass Filter.

And if the circuit does not involve any active components and consists only passive components like

resistor, capacitor and the doctor, then the circuit is called a passive band pass filter.

As told earlier, we this cause the passive banters filter, which is constructed using resistors and

capacitors.

It is a combination of a hyper filter and Lopez filter.

The first half of the circuit is a high pass filter, which filters the low frequencies and allows only

the frequency that is higher than the set high cutoff frequency.

The value of these high cutoff frequency can be calculated using this formula here.

The second half of the circuit is the Lopez Filter circuit, which filters the high frequencies and

allows only the frequency that is lower than the set low cutoff frequency.

The value of low cutoff frequency can be calculated using this formula here by adjusting the cutoff

frequencies of the hippies and Lopez filters, we can obtain the appropriate width of the past band

for the Band Pass filter.

Since these filter passes are band of frequencies, this filter contains two cutoff frequencies, right?

Lower cutoff frequency and higher cutoff frequency.

As a result, the range of the frequencies which are passed through the filter is called US bandwidth

over the filter.

In general, the bandwidth of the circuit can be calculated by doing the difference between the higher

cutoff frequency and the lower cutoff frequency.

The Band Pass filter will pass the frequencies higher than the cutoff frequency of the Lopez filter

and lower than the cutoff frequency of the high pass filter.