Welcome to the amazing world of electronics.

You see.

Ever since I was a kid, I've been fascinated with electronics.

When I was about 10 years old, my dad bought me electronic experimenters kit from the local store.

I still have it and it's pictured here.

I have incredible memories of evenings spent with my dad wiring the sample circuits to make squawking

police sirens, flashing lights, radio receiver and even a telegraph machine.

The best part was dreaming that when I grew up, I would have a job in the field of electronics that

someday I would understand exactly how those resistors, capacitors, inductors, transistors and integrated

circuits actually worked, and I would use that knowledge to design televisions or computers or communication

satellites.

This course is an introduction to electronics for people who have always been fascinated by electronics, but

did not make a career out of it.

In this course, you will find the clear and concise explanations of the most important concepts that

form the basis of all electronic devices concepts such as the nature of electricity.

If you think you really know what it is, you are kidding yourself.

The difference between voltage, amperage and wattage and how basic components such as resistors, capacitors,

diodes and transistors work, not only you will gain an appreciation for the electronics devices that

are part of everyday life, but we also learn how to build simple circuits that will not only impress

your friends but may actually be useful.

Throughout this course, I make very few assumptions about what you may know about the subject of electronics.

.

I certainly don't assume that you've ever taken a class in electronics, have ever assembled a circuit

or are well-versed in advance science or math.

In fact, there are only two things I do assume you are curious about the fascinating world of electronics.

For example, if you are ever wondered how radio works or what makes a computer possible.

Well, this course is for you.

And finally, you like to build things.

You see, the best way to learn about electronics is to do electronics.

And this course has plenty of simple projects for you to build and back your knowledge up with first

hand experience using a really powerful simulator that you will soon see.
