Before you can understand even the simplest concepts of electronics, you must first understand what

electricity is. After all,

the whole purpose of electronics is to get electricity, to do useful and interesting things.

The concept of electricity is both familiar and mysterious.

We all know what electricity is, or at least have a rough idea, based on practical experience. In particular,

consider these points:

We are very familiar with the electricity that flows through wires like water flows through a pipe.

That electricity comes from power plants that burn coal, catch the wind or harness nuclear reactions.

It travels from the power plants to our houses in big cables hung high in the air or buried in the ground.

Once it gets to our houses, it travels through wires through the walls until it gets to electrical

outlets.

From there, we plug in power cords to get the electricity into the electrical devices we depend on

every day, such as ovens and toasters, and vacuum cleaners.

Unfortunately, we know, that because the electric company bills us for it every month that electricity

is not free.

If you don't pay the bill, the energy company turns off our electricity, and as a result, we know

that electricity is valuable.

We also know that electricity can be stored in batteries, which contain a limited amount of electricity

that can be used up.

When the batteries die, all their electricity is gone.

We know that some kind of batteries, like the ones in our cell phones are rechargeable, which means

that when they've been drained of all the electricity, more electricity can be put back into them by

plugging them into a charger, which transfers electricity from one electrical outlet into the battery.

Rechargeable batteries can be filled and drained over and over again, but eventually they lose their

ability to be recharged and you have to replace them with new batteries.

We also know that electricity is a stuff that makes lightning strike in a thunderstorm. In grade school,

we were thought that Ben Franklin discovered this by conducting an experiment involving a kite and a

key which we should not attempt to repeat at home.

We also know that electricity can be measured in Volts.

Household electricity is 120 volts.

Abbreviated 120 volts, flashlight batteries are 1.5V

Car batteries are 12V.

We also know that electricity can be measured in watts.

Traditional incandescent light bulbs are typically 60, 75 or 100 watts.

Modern, compact fluorescent lights have somewhat smaller wattage ratings.

On the other hand, microwave ovens and hair dryers are 1000 or 1200 watts.

The more watts, the brighter the light or the faster your pizza heats and your hair dries.

We also know that there's a third way to measure electricity called amps.

A typical household electrical outlet is 15 amps.

Now, the truth is, most of us don't really know the difference between volts, watts and amps.

But don't worry, by the time you finish a second or the third chapter, you will.

We also know that there's a special kind of electricity called static electricity that just sort of

hangs around in the air.

But that can be transferred to us by dragging our feet on the carpet, rubbing a balloon against our

hairy arms, or forgetting to put an anti-static sheet in the dryer.

And finally, we also know that electricity can be very dangerous.

In fact, dangerous enough that for almost 100 years, electricity was used to administer the death penalty.

Every year, hundreds of people die in the United States from accidental electrocution.