Electricity is all around us powering technology like our cell phones, computers, lights, soldering irons,

air conditioners and so on.

It's tough to escape in our modern world.

Even when you try to escape electricity,

it's still at work throughout nature. From the lightning in a thunderstorm to the synapses in our body.

But what exactly is electricity?

In this course, we will focus on current electricity, the stuff that powers our electric gadgets.

All right.

So the electricity is briefly defined as the flow through charge, but there's so much behind this simple

statement. Where do the charges come from?

How do we move them?

Where do they move to?

How does electric charge cause mechanical motion or make things light up?

So many questions.

So to begin to explain what electricity is, we need to zoom way in beyond the meter and molecules for

the atoms that makeup everything we interact with in life. To understand the fundamentals of electricity,

we need to begin by focusing in on atoms.

One of the basic building blocks of life and matter. Atoms exist in over 100 different forms as

chemical elements like hydrogen, carbon, oxygen and copper. Atoms of many types can combine to make

molecules which build the matter we can physically see and touch.

Atoms are tiny, stretching at the MAX to about 300 picometers long.

Even though they are so small, they are not small enough to explain the working of electricity.

We need to dive down one more level and look in on the building blocks of atoms, which are protons,

neutrons and electrons.

So an atom is built with a combination of three distinct particles electrons, protons and electrons.

Each atom has a center nucleus where the protons and neutrons are densely packed together.

Surrounding the nucleus are a group of orbiting electrons.

Every atom must have at least one proton in it.

The number of protons in an atom is important because it defines what chemical element the atom

represents.

So, for example, an atom with just one proton is hydrogen, and atom with 29 protons is copper.

And an atom.

If 94 protons is plutonium. This count of protons is called atoms atomic number.

As in the Bohr atom model, a nucleus with 29 protons making it a copper atom is surrounded by an

equal number of electrons.

The atom's electrons aren't all forever bound to the atom.

The electrons on the outer orbit of the atom are called valence electrons.

With enough outside force, a valence

electron can escape orbit of the atom and become free.

Free electrons allow us to move charge, which is what electricity is all about.

We usually use copper cables to form the circuit because the atoms that make copper have a loosely bound

electron in their outer most or valence shell, which is free to move around inside the metal.

And this free electron is very easy to move, which is why copper is so popular.

To make use of this, we need lots of electrons to flow in the same direction along with it.

We can then place things such as lamps in the way of these electrons so that they flow through it and

generate light and heat, etc. To do this, we need to force the electrons to move, and we can do that

by applying a voltage.

Voltage is the motivation a pushing force.

It's like a pressure in a water pipe.

The more pressure we have, the more water can flow, the more voltage we have, the more electrons

can flow.

So we need a lot of electrons to flow along a circuit and through our lamps to get them to shine brightly.

However, the cables and lamp can only handle a certain amount of electrons passing through them.

People often refer to a river as having a strong current.

It's very similar to electricity. A river with a lot of fast-flowing water is said to have a strong

current.

The same with electricity.

A cable with a lot of electrons flowing also has a high current.

A river is able to handle a certain amount of water flowing through it.

But if more water enters than it can handle, then the river will burst its banks.

The same with electricity, the cable will burst and burn out.

Electrical wires are made of both conductors and isolators.

Inside the wire is a conductor, such as a copper or aluminum.

The conductor provides a channel for the electric current to flow through.

Surrounding the conductor is an outer layer of isolator, such as plastic or rubber.

The isolator serves two purposes.

First, it prevents you from touching the wire, and current is flowing.

And as a result, preventing you from being the recipient of a nasty shock.

But just as importantly, the isolator prevents the conductor inside the wire from touching the conductor

inside a nearby wire.

If the conductors were allowed to touch, the result would be a short circuit.

Which brings us to the third important concept. An electric circuit is a closed-loop made of conductors

and other electrical elements through which electric current can flow.

For example, this figure shows a very simple electrical circuit that consists of three elements a battery,

a lamp and an electrical wire that connects the two.

The circuit shown in this figure is, as I already said, very simple. Circuits can get much more complex, consisting

of dozens, hundreds or even thousands or millions of separate components, all connected with conductors

in precisely orchestrated ways so that each component can do its bit to contribute to the overall purpose

of the circuit.

But also, circuits must obey the basic principle of a closed loop.

Remember that all circuits must create a closed loop that provides a complete path from the source of

voltage, which in this case is the battery through the various components that make up the circuit.

In this case, the lamp and back to the source, again, the battery.