Now, one of the reasons I started this chapter with the story lessons about Thomas Edison was to point

out that when the whole field of electronics was invented in 1883, electrical devices had already been

around for at least a hundred years.

For example, Benjamin Franklin was flying kites in thunderstorms more than a hundred years before. The

first electric batteries ever invented by a fellow named Alessandro Volta in 1800.

Volta's contribution is so important that the common term "Volt" is named for him.

There is some archaeological evidence though that the ancient Parthian Empire may have been invented

the electric battery in the II century BC.

But if so, we don't know what they used their batteries for, and their invention was forgotten for

two thousand years.

The electric telegraph was invented in the 1830s and popularized in America by Samuel Morse, who invented

the famous Morse code used to encode the alphabet and numerals into a series of short and long cliques

that could be transmitted via Telegraph.

In 1866, a telegraph cable was laid across the Atlantic Ocean, allowing instantaneous communication

between the United States and Europe.

Now, contrary to popular belief, Benjamin Franklin wasn't the first to fly a kite in a thunderstorm.

In 1850, he published a paper outlining his idea.

Then he let a few other people try it first, and after they survived,

he tried the experiment himself and wound up getting all the credit.

Benjamin Franklin was not only very smart.

He was also very wise.

Now, all the devices and many other common devices still in use today, such as lightbulbs, vacuum

cleaners and toasters are known as electrical devices.

So what exactly is the difference between electrical devices and electronic devices?

You see, the answer lies in how devices manipulate electricity to do their work.

Electrical devices take the energy of electric current and transform it in simple ways into some other

form of energy, most likely light, heat or motion.

For example, light bulbs turn electrical energy into light so you can stay up late at night reading

a book for example.

The heating elements in a toaster turn electrical energy into heat so you can burn your

toast and the motor in your vacuum cleaner turns electrical energy into motion that drives a pump that

sucks the burnt toast crumbs out of your carpet.

In contrast, electronic devices do much more.

Instead of just converting electrical energy into heat, light or motion, electronic devices are designed

to manipulate the electrical current itself to do interesting and useful things.

The very first electronic device invented in 1883 by Thomas Edison, manipulated the electrical current,

pushing through a light bulb in a way that let Edison create a device that could monitor the voltage

being provided to an electrical circuit and automatically increase or decrease the voltage if it became

too low or too high.

Now, don't worry if you are uncertain what the term "voltage" means at this point.

You will learn about voltage in the next chapter.

One of the most common things that electronic devices do is to manipulate electric current in a way

that adds meaningful information to the current.

So, for example, an audio electronic device adds sound information to an electric current so that

you can listen to music or talk on a cell phone and video devices,

add images to an electric current so you can watch great movies like Harry Potter, Lord of the Rings

over and over again until you know every line by heart.

Keep in mind, though, that the distinction between electric and electronic devices is a bit blurry.

What used to be simple electrical devices now often include some electronic components in them.

For example, your toaster may contain an electronic thermostat that attempts to keep the heat at just

the right temperature to make perfect toast.

Is it probably still burn your toast, but at least it tries not to, and even the most complicated

electronic devices have simple electrical components in them.

For example, although your TV set's remote control is a pretty complicated little electronic device, it contains

batteries which are simple electrical devices.