Now, have you ever taken apart an electronic device that no longer works? like an old clock radio or

VHS tape player just to see what it looks like on the inside?

Inside most electronic devices, you will find a circuit board or circuit card, it's all the same.

Which is a flat, thin board that has electronic gizmos mounted on it.

In most cases, one side of the circuit board is populated with tiny devices that look like little buildings.

These are the components that make up the electric circuit.

The resistors, capacitors, diodes, transistors and integrated circuits that do the work that the

circuit is destined to do.

The other side is painted with little lines of silver or copper that look like streets.

These are the conductors that connect all the components so that they can work together.

An electronic circuit board looks like a little city.

For example, have a look at a typical circuit board pictured here.

The top of the card is shown on the left, and as you can see, it has a variety of common electronic

components.

The underbelly of the circuit card is shown on the right.

It has the typical silver streaks of conductors that connect the components topside so that they can

perform useful work.

Now here's the essence of what's going on with these two sides of the circuit card or PCB.

The component side of the card, the side with the little buildings, holds a collection of electronic

components whose sole purpose in life is to bend, turn and twist electric current, to get it, to

do interesting and useful things.

Some of those components restrict the flow of current like speed bumps on the road.

Others make the current stronger, some work like one way street signs that allow current to flow in

only one direction.

Still, others try to smooth out any ripples or variations in the current, resulting in smoother traffic flow.

.

The circuit side of the card, the side of the roads, provides the conductive pathways for the electric current

to flow from one component to the other in a certain order.

The whole trick of designing and building electronic circuits is to connect all the components together

in just the right way so that the current that flows out of one component is passed on to the next component.

OK.

I couldn't even get through the first chapter of this course without having to give you the first of

many warnings about the dangers of working with electronics.

So here it goes.

Do not, under any circumstances, plunge carelessly into the disassembly of all the electronic circuits,

until you are certain you know what you are doing.

You see the little components on a circuit card such as shown in this figure can be dangerous.

Even when they are unplugged !

In fact, the two tall cylindrical components near the back edge of the circuit card are called capacitors.

They can contain stored electrical energy that can deliver a powerful, even fatal shock long after

you've unplugged the power cord.