Hello and welcome back, guys.

As I have mentioned in the previous course, we start discussing about the operating regions of her

father and sister.

In order to understand this better, we will take a look at the fat cat, this curve which looks like

this.

As you can see, there are four operating regions we have the cutoff region or region separation and

finally the breakdown region.

Don't worry, it's very easy to understand this is a curve.

So let's jump straight into it and start with the Qatar region as it is the easiest one to understand.

The cut off region for Masterfoods is similar to the cut off region of the people's transition, one

where the transistor acts like an open circuit.

So right now, the transistor works in the forward act.

The original right.

The transistor is biased properly, meaning that the base voltage is around the threshold voltage and

current flows from collector to emdur.

When we hover over the transistor, the simulator is kind enough to tell us that right now the transistor

is in the forward active mode, however, was the base voltage is low enough, the transistor shuts

down and the transistor enters the cutoff region and no more current flows through the transistor.

Before we jump into the simulation part of Maxford, I want to give you a brief overview of what the

threshold voltage means for mosfet, more specifically for an engine on a has been mosfet where you

see people transistors have a threshold voltage of around zero point six to zero point seven words.

This is the threshold voltage above which the collective current appears to increase rapidly in the

forward active region.

The base to enter voltage is typically zero point six to zero point seven words.

So just like before transistors, Masterfoods also have a threshold voltage.

But the catch here is that different lawsuits have a different threshold voltage.

The reason why the threshold voltage for people transistors is around zero point seven.

What is because basically there's a diode between the base and ammeter, which has to be forward, biased

and usually a small signal diodes needs around zero point seven words to start the conduction.

Now, Moskovitz, on the other hand, are constructed differently.

However, the working principle is similar to threshold voltage, commonly abbreviated as with the edge

of a field effect.

Transistor is the minimum gate to source voltage that is needed to create a conducting path between

the source and train terminals.

In and general, it has been more devices.

A conductive channel does not exist naturally between the transistor and a positive datasource.

Source voltage is necessary to create one such.

So I guess this is pretty clear.

Again, the threshold voltage is the voltage applied between gate.

A source of a mosfet that is needed to turn the device on a mosfet enters the cutoff region when the

gate to source voltage is lower than the threshold voltage.

So when the mosfet operates in the Qatar region, the mosfet is turned off and there is no conduction

between Iranian source.

So let's see this behaviour in the simulator.

All right.

So this particular Maspeth has a threshold voltage of one point five watts right now is in the separation

mode, which we haven't talked about yet.

And since the gate voltage is about the threshold voltage of one point five, what's the most for this

turned on and conduct's current?

However, notice what happens when this gate voltage gets lower.

So once it falls below one point five words, as you can see, the mosfet is turned off.

So basically this means that the mosfet is in the Qatar region.

So right now, the gate voltages one point four walls and walls.

It exceeds the threshold voltage of one point five.

What the mosfet is in separation and start conducting current, but then it falls below that point.

The mosfet is in the cutoff mode.

Of course, in reality, there won't be such a quick transition here.

But you get the point.

So the conduction through the channel stopped.

You can now lower the gate voltage as much as you want.

It won't effect the drain current level, even though it says here that there's some Netherlanders.

In reality, when the mosfet is in the cutoff mode, no current flows through the mosfet.

All right.

So I hope this was clear.

If not, please leave a comment below.

And in the next course, let's talk about the next operating region, Korda's the Omec region.