Now, let's move further and talk about the next region called as the Omec region, that the Omec region

of a transistor, which is also called as the Linnear region, is the region where the drain current

has a linear path to changes in the drain source voltage, which mimics the linear response that would

be obtained from Ohm's Law.

So the drain current depends on the drain to source voltage right to the beginning of the curve, as

you can see.

Then the drain to source voltage is small.

The drain current varies nearly linearly with the drain to source voltage.

So the Y axis is the drain current and the x axis is a drain to source voltage.

These values that you can see here are just informative.

Different fats have different values.

And the reason why you see here, multiple lines is because the transition from omic region to separation

region or from separation to breakdown region depends on the voltage applied on the gate.

So notice that as long as the Fed is in the Omec region, an increase in datasource voltage will increase

the drain current proportionally.

Now, as you might have guessed, the reason why the only region is called the Linnear region is because

the drain current there is nearly linearly with the drain voltage, and it's also called the omic region

because the Fed acts like a variable resistor.

So the only region is the only region of a fat cat is the curve where there's a linear response in current

from changes in the voltage.

It is called the only region or linear region because the fat behaves like a voltage controlled resistor.

It mimics ohms law where current has a linear response to changes in voltage.

In other parts of the latest curve, the current behaves not linearly.

Nothing else would occur in Ohm's Law.

Now, you might ask, what's the condition required for the Fed to operate in the region?

Well, it's very easy.

These omic region happens when the datasource voltage is higher than the threshold voltage and then

drain to source voltage is lower than get to source voltage, minus the threshold voltage.

So this is the condition required for the Fed to operate in the Linea region, which we will see now

in the simulator.

And here we are.

Now let's change the drain voltage to zero volts, all right, now if we halwa over the mosfet, you

can see down on the right corner that right now the Fed operates in the linear region.

So we are in the only region right now.

And also note that the threshold voltages, again, one point five words.

So the reason why the Fed is in the linear region is because, first of all, the voltage applied on

the gate is higher than the threshold voltage of one point five.

That's right.

And the drain voltage is lower than the gate voltage minus the threshold voltage.

So the voltage minus the threshold voltages to words, which means that the Fed will operate in the

omic region as long as a drain voltage is lower than how much do what's right.

And of course, as long as the gate voltage is higher than the threshold voltage.

Now, notice that as I increase the drain voltage, the drain current also increases nearly linearly,

just as the characteristic curve pointed out.

And as long as we are below to what the Fed acts like a voltage control resistor where voltage is nearly

linear with the current, however, notice that once we exceed two words, the drain current stop increasing.

Why?

Because we have entered in the next operating region code does the separation region in the separation

region.

The drain voltage doesn't really have any effect on the drain current.

But let's talk about this in the next course.