Hello, it's great to see you back, the next operating region that we look at is the saturation region.

The saturation region of a transistor is the region where the drain current flowing from the drain to

the source of the transistor is the highest for the gate source voltage that is applied.

This is why it is referred to as the saturation region, because the drain current output is a saturation

or maximum output for the given voltage.

Then you take a look at the risk curve for this particular transistor, which in this case is an antenna

enhancement mode.

MOSFET, the largest drain current occurs when the great source voltage supply is six.

So in order for the Fed to work in a saturation region, due conditions need to met.

The first one is that the gate to source voltage is higher than the threshold voltage.

And the second one is that the drain to source voltage is higher or equal to get to source voltage minus

the threshold voltage.

However, if the drain voltage increase is too high, the Fed will enter in the breakdown region.

But we will see that in the next course, where we will also take a look inside of a data sheet of a

real Arjan assessment of.

Now, as you can see in the separation region, the transistor is strongly influenced by Gaith Source

voltage, but hardly at all by the Transource voltage.

An increase in the drain voltage won't really have any effect on the current.

If you want to increase the current flow through the channel, you will have to increase the gate voltage.

All right, so the drain voltage right now is zero volts and the threshold voltage is still one point

five volts, not as long as the drain voltage is below to what the fact is in the omega linnear region.

Right.

But once the drain voltage exceeds this wattage, the Fed enters the saturation region and the drain

current is no longer dependent on the drain voltage.

So now if you want to increase the drain current, what you have to do is to increase the gate voltage.

So as I increases, voltage noticed that the drain current increases as well.

Make sure you don't increase the drain on too high because you risk burning all the fat.

But we will talk about the Fed's important ethical characteristics that you must be aware of when choosing

one for your application in another course.

What's really interesting here in the simulator is that no matter how high the drain voltage is, the

effort will never enter the breakdown region, which is again, I guess, another design mistake.

Now, one more thing regarding saturation.

Do not confuse the saturation region for mosfet with the saturation region for people transistors.

So if we take a look at both the curve, we can see that the active region of a Russian transistor corresponds

to the saturation region of a mass foot.

What's important to understand is that both Monforton people transistors have different use cases depending

on the region they operate.

So usually saturation mode is used for the production transistors when we want it to act as a simple

switch.

And if you've forgotten this, I advise you to go back to the course where I have explained this concept

in more detail than you want to amplify a signal before a transistor, you would need to use it in the

active region.

Field effect transistors are an excellent choice for small signal linear amplifiers as their input impedance

is extremely high, making them easy to buy us both.

For a mass effort to produce linear amplification, it has to operate in its saturation region, unlike

the bipolar junction transistor.

Now, some might say that the wait a minute.

For me, this just doesn't sound right.

Why would I use a mosfet for signal amplification in the saturation region and not in the linear region

where you see in region is unfortunately the most inconsistently used term when it comes to Masterfoods,

it can mean exactly the opposite, depending on the author.

Now, I really don't want to confuse you, but I would personally avoid using linear region as an equivalent

for omic region when it comes to Masterfoods.

Just avoid using linear region at all.

Just say omic region, OK?

And I will end the course here because explaining this further will go beyond the scope of this lecture.

But once we do more exercises Moffat's you will understand why we use the mosfet a small signal amplifiers

in the saturation region and not in the Omec region.