Last but not least, we have the break down region, the Breeda region of a federal transistor is the

region where the drain of the transistor receives too much voltage, which causes a drain source channel

to break down and the drain current drastically increases.

The Breeda region is the last section to the right of the conclusive curve in which the drain source

voltage width increase is too much for the channel to handle.

And at this point, the Fed loses its ability to resist current because too much voltage is applied

across the drain source terminal.

Looking at the catastrophic curve, we can see that the lower the gate source voltages, the earlier

the breakdown which occurs.

So for a lower WGS, a lower drain source voltage is needed for the Mossler to enter the BREEDA region.

All right.

So the breakdown region happens when the voltage between the drain and the source is high enough to

cause the fats resistive channel to break down and pece uncontrolled amount of current.

Now, if you want to simulate the breakdown region here in the simulator, well, you can't.

Usually the breakdown of the fat is tested with the gate being tight ground, just like the source.

And the reason why you can test the breakdown is because, first of all, we are in a virtual world

here where almost everything is ideal.

Second of all, there is no parameter here which specifies when these breakdown voltage occurs.

So here in the simulator, no matter how big the drain voltage is.

The feds channel will never break down, which in real life, this is not true at all because was the

drain wattage increases too much, the Fed loses its ability to resist current.

So an uncontrolled amount of current will flow through the channel, which will burn out the fat and

cause irreversible damages.

Now, you might ask, what is the drain voltage that when exceeded the mosfet, enters the brain region?

And that's a good question for that.

I made a separate video, which is the next one, where we will take a look at the data of an engine

that has been blown mosfet.

And we will check out some important energy characteristics that you can understand so far.

See you next course.


