All right, so this is a data sheet of a randomly chosen and it has been called Field Effect Transistor,

as you can see, it has the same package as the transistor one.

Thankfully, it's very easy to confuse with it.

And we have the schematic symbol.

We learn about this diode here in another course.

But now, if you scroll down a little bit, the first thing you will see is the absolute maximum ratings

at here.

We can read that stress is exceeding the absolute maximum ratings may damage the device.

So why do we have here?

Well, the first thing that is mentioned is the maximum to source voltage, which is 60 miles.

Applying a voltage higher than a 60 votes on the drain may cause mosfet to enter the Breeda region and

be permanently damaged.

However, it's worth noting here that this 60 votes is valid when the gate source is short circuited.

So as he has seen on the Kasese curve for different datasource voltages, slightly different drain voltages

is needed to enter the brain region.

So here are the data.

She specifies the maximum drain source voltage when the gate and source is grounded.

So they are at zero volts.

We know that an engine has been moored.

Mossler starts conducting current when the gate voltage is close or exceeds the threshold voltage and

then the gate is tied to ground.

So it's a zero watts.

No current will flow through the channel.

However, if the drain voltage applied is higher than 60 votes, the Fed will eventually break down

and conduct enough current to damage itself.

All right.

This was it about this parameter.

And let's move further.

There's a maximum gate to source what is specified.

So we already know that the higher the gate to source voltage for an antonymous that is, the higher

the current that will flow through the channel.

However, you cannot increase the gate voltage to infinite.

Obviously, that's why the maximum gate voltage that you can apply when the source is rounded is plus

minus 20 volts in continuous mode if you are in a switching mode.

So for example, if you are switching on and off the fat, you can apply up to 40 volts.

If the switching speed is lower than 50 microseconds, there is a maximum drain specified which says

that the Fed can continuously conduct current up to 280 micro amps without damaging itself.

And when the current is pulsed so that basically the fat is switched on and off rapidly, a maximum

current of one point five amps can handle.

All right.

So the next parameter that we were looking for in the previous course was the train source, Bradon

Voltage.

So the breakdown of the Fed occurs when the drain source voltage is greater or equal than 60 votes,

basically is the same with the maximum drain to source voltage specified earlier.

So make sure your train voltage will never exceed the 60 volts, otherwise you risk blowing up your

mosfet.

Now, one of the most important parameter that we look for when choosing a mosfet is the threshold voltage.

For that, we just have to scroll down a little bit and here it is, gatecrash on voltage.

So FETs just like any other electrical components, are not ideal.

So instead of specifying one threshold voltage, there's a range given, which is between zero point

eight and three words.

Usually I like to consider the middle value as the threshold voltage, which is around two point one

volts.

And if you want more information about this, like how the drain current varies with the gate voltage,

you can scroll down and search a graph called as the transfer characteristics.

Here you can see that as long as the gate to source voltage is below two words, there is no drin current.

But starting from two two point three words, the train car starts increasing with the increase of voltage.

And by the help of this graph, you can precisely determine the drain.

Correct?

So let's see a target voltage of six words at room temperature.

There will be around one amps flowing from DataSource.

There's another charge that we must look at, and it's nothing else but the oil in the region, critics.

So this chart is basically what we have seen in each of the course.

It is chapter.

It's nothing else but the characteristics curve.

So let's examine a line.

Let's take this one.

When the gate source voltage is fixed at four walls, you can't see that until the dream source voltage

is below one world.

The drain current has a linear, I mean inertly linear response to changes in the drain source voltage.

So we are in the omic region.

But once the drain voltage exceeds one watts, you can see that the Fed set rates and an increase in

drain voltage won't have any effect on the drain current, which will be in this case around zero point

four amps or 400 milligrams.