Once you graduate from the simple basic components that are resistors, capacitors and inductors, it's

time to step on up to the wonderful world of semiconductors.

One of the most widely used semiconductor components is the diode.

So what is a diode and how does it work?

Well, the key function of an ideal diode is to control the direction of current flow.

You see, current passing through a diode can only go in one direction called the forward direction.

Current trying to flow.

The reverse direction is blocked.

If the voltage across the diode is negative, no current can flow.

And the ideal dial looks like an open secret.

In such a situation, the diode is said to be off or reverse bias.

As long as the voltage across a diode isn't negative, it will turn on and conduct current.

Ideally, a diode would act like a short circuit, which means that there would be zero walls across

it.

If it was conducting current, then diode is conducting current its forward bias.

So this is the current voltage relationship of an ideal diode.

Again, this is for an ideal diode, which of course doesn't exist.

If there would be such an ideal diode, the current voltage relationship would look something like this.

This graph shows that any negative voltage produces zero current.

Basically the diode acts like an open circuit.

As long as the voltage is non-negative, the diode would look like a short circuit, meaning that it

would act like a piece of wire and no voltage would be dropped across it, of course, in real life.

This is not the case because you will see in a moment that when Diaconu its current, there will be

a voltage drop across it caldas forward voltage drop.

Now every diode has two terminals, which are connections on each end of the component, and those terminals

are polarized, meaning that the two terminals are distinctly different.

It's important not to mix the connections on a dial up the positive and of a diode is called the A.

And the negative end is called the cathode current cash flow from the anode and to the cathode, but

not the other direction.

The sacred symbol of a standard diode is, uh, triangle butting up against the line, as we recall

in the light, of course, there are a variety of diode types, but usually there are circuits.

Zimbabwe looks like this.

Now, the terminal entering the flat edge of a triangle represents the anod current flows in the direction

that the triangle or arrow is pointing, but it can't go the other way.

Here you can see a couple of simple dial circuit examples on the left diode.

The one is forward, biased and allowing current to flow through the circuit.

In essence, it looks like a short circuit on the right diode.

The two is reverse bias, so current cannot flow through the circuit and it essentially looks like an

open circuit.

As I said, unfortunately, there is no such thing as an ideal diode.

But don't worry, diodes really are real.

They just got the -- three sticks which make them operate as a little less than our ideal model.

Ideally, diodes will block any and all current flowing the reverse direction or just act like a short

circuit if current flow is forward.

Unfortunately, actual diode behavior isn't quite ideal.

Diodes do consume some amount of power they're conducting for with current and they won't block out

all reverse.

Current real world diodes are a bit more complicated and they all have unique characteristics which

define how they actually operate the most important that it is its current voltage relationship.

This device, what the current running through a component is given what voltage is measured across

it.

Resistors, for example, have a simple linear current voltage relationship.

Right?

This is purely Ohm's Law.

The current voltage curve of a diode, though, is entirely nonlinear.

It looks something like this now, as you can see, depending on the voltage applied across it, a diode

will operate in one of the three regions.

The first region is the forward bias region.

Then the voltage across the diode is positive.

The diode is on and current.

Run through, so the voltage should be greater than the forward voltage in order for the current to

be anything significant, the next operating region is the reverse bias region.

So this is the off mode of the diode where the voltage is less than the forward voltage, but greater

than the miners break down voltage.

In this mode, current flow is mostly blocked and the diode is of a very small amount of current.

Well, in order of nanobots called reverse saturation, current is able to flow in reverse through the

diode.

The last region is a break down region when the voltage applied across the dial is very large and the

negative, so lots of current will be able to flow in the reverse direction from cathode to a..

So these are all the three regions the diode can work in.

In the next course, we will go through each of the operating regions in more detail.

So we will get a better understanding of how that works.

See you there.


