Welcome back.

In the previous courses, so in the current Worthy's relationship graph, that diet can work in three

different operating regions, these three operating regions are the bradon region, then reversed by

region and a forward bias region.

So based on this graph, we can see that in order to turn on and conduct current in the forward direction,

a diet requires a certain amount of positive voltage to be applied across it.

The typical voltage required to turn the dial on is called the forward voltage.

Typically, a silico diode will have a forward voltage of around zero point six and one Wolds germanium

based diode might be lower around zero point three.

What's the type of diode also has some importance in defining the forward voltage drop.

For example, light emitting diodes can have a much larger forward voltage drop, while short diodes

are designed specifically to have a much lower than usual for voltage.

But more on short cardioverter for now.

Remember that the general-purpose silicon diode usually will have a forward voltage between zero point

six and one more.

This means that was the voltage across the dial is around zero point six volts.

The diode starts to conduct.

And starting from that point, little increasing voltage will mean a large increase in current flow

through the diode.

Now, let's try to simulate this behavior in our simulator and here we are.

So this is a simple demonstration of a diode sees the DC power supply we are using is set zero words.

No current will flow in the circuit.

Obviously, right now here in the simulator, we only care about one property of the diet and that is

the forward voltage drop.

Soon we will go through the leadership of a diode to see all the electrical properties that it has.

But for now, what we are all interested in is the forward voltage drop.

By default, if you draw a diode like this so you can just press down these and drag a diode, this

diode by default will have a forward voltage drop of zero point six watts.

On the other hand, we have a slider on the right which can increase or decrease the voltage of the

power source.

Now notice what happens with the current that flows in the circuit, why I'll increase this power supply

voltage.

So as long as the power supply voltage is below zero point six volts, the current flowing in the circuit

is very little.

Fortunately, the behavior of the diode here in the simulator acts similarly before a real bore diode,

meaning that even if the voltage across diode is less than the forward voltage drop of zero six volts,

there will be some tiny amount of current flow as the current approaches zero point six votes.

Of course, more and more current will flow in the circuit.

Now, we have reached the zero point six voids and starting from this point, the voltage increases

beyond the.

The current increases exponentially, and now we can safely say that diode operates in the forward by

region since its forward bias at this point, the resistance of the diet has dropped significantly and

Corot is allowed to pass through more easily in the reduction of a diode.

We will see that there is a maximum amount of current flow through the diet specified.

This is an important political prop. which basically tells or worries you about the maximum amount of

current that is allowed to flow through the diet.

The next operating region that we have talked about is the reverse bias region, and this happens when

the voltage across a diet is negative.

In other words, the voltage on the cathode is higher than the voltage on the anad.

So we say that the diode is reverse biased when the voltage on the catus here is more positive than

the anode, where the diode is reverse biased as it is right now, of course, no current will flow

through it now, of course, in reverse, nothing is perfect and the diode will still conduct some amount

of current when it is reverse bias.

But that amount of current is really insignificant since usually it's in the range of Nannerl.

Ms.

Now, the last operating region is the break down region.

So if a large enough negative voltage.

Is applied to the diode.

The diet will basically give up and allow current to flow in the reverse direction.

Now here in the simulator, no matter how big the reverse mortgage is, the diet will act as an ideal,

perfect diet and will not allow current to flow through it, despite of the big reverse voltage applied.

What a bummer.

So in real world, if, let's say the breakdown region of the diet is 40 words and we apply 40 votes

or sorry, minus 40 void's or more in reverse, of course, the diet will break down and allow current

to flow in river.

Note that the braider itself does not damage the diet.

If and only if the current is limited, what is important is that if there is no current limiting resistor,

for example, the diet will heat until it would burn and you will have a short circuit or open circuit

and it won't work in the future.

Of course, we will learn about Zenner diets, which are like general-purpose diets or in fact any other

diets.

Zenner diets are used in the breakdown region instead of the forewords region.

All right.

That's called.

Let's have a look inside of the datasheet of General-Purpose Normal Diet.