All right, so the diet that we are going to examine in more detail is the one forty one forty eight

diet.

If you go to the data of this particular diet, the first thing you will notice is that this diet is

a small signal.

First switching diet.

Now, don't get scared because of this fancy name.

Small signal only means that the diet works with relatively low voltages, which implies that it has

lower power dissipation capabilities, which of course further implies that the current flowing through

it is relatively small.

And switching diet means that this one can switch on and off more rapidly than the other diets in the

market.

Why would you even switch on and off rapidly?

A diet, you might ask.

What's the point where you see there are many applications or electronic circuits that deal with high

frequency signals?

An example would be switching more power supplies, switching more power supplies, electronic circuits

converts power using switching devices that are turned on and off at higher frequencies.

These power supplies are very popular nowadays since they offer very good efficiency and we will learn

more about them in the future.

Now, the point here is that there are diodes that can switch on and off more rapidly than other diodes

in the market, and this particular diode is better suitable for these kind of high frequency applications

that I told you about switching more power supplies.

Right.

This diode actually would not be the best choice for these type of circuits, since they are designed

for small signallers, meaning that its current handling capabilities is low.

A power supply has to deliver at least one amper or more.

Right.

And if we go just a little below, we can see that the maximum forward continuous current is just 300

amps.

So as the name implies, this is the maximum current that the diode is able to conduct continuously

when it's for buyers.

If the dialed is switched on and off rapidly, the maximum current increases to 500 mg.

Great.

So the next etiquette risks that we are interested in is the forward voltage, the maximum forward voltage

is one world and the minimum is not specified.

In fact, it is specified in the graph below, which displays the forward current versus forward voltage

curve.

Now, from this graph, we can deduce that the diet won't conduct any current or any significant current

when the voltage across it is below the zero point four zero point five words.

We can see that starting from around zero point five words, the dired starts turning on and a little

change in voltage will mean a large increase in current.

In other words, the resistance of the dial dropped significantly after the forward voltage goes above

zero point five words.

The next important question is this is the breakdown wordage, the minimum breakdown voltage is one

hundred words.

And this means that this is the minimum voltage that if passed the diode basically breaks down and starts

conducting in the opposite direction, which is something that you want to avoid happening in your circuit.

Otherwise you might create a system failure and potentially destroying some components in your circuit

below.

We have a graph with reverse current versus reverse voltage.

Now you can see that diodes are not perfect and unfortunately they do conduct current if voltage is

applied in reverse.

Fortunately, the current is quite low.

We are talking about nine times here and until 100 what the current is basically less than one millionth.

You can see that at 100 votes, the current just goes crazy.

So be aware not to apply more than 100 words in reverse for this particular diode.