We'll come back in this story, we will learn about different types of diets, these include small signal

diodes, power diodes, Zenner diodes, light emitting diodes and shatkin diets.

This will be a brief note on different types of diets with basic functionality and its sacred symbol.

If you find this course difficult to understand no more, because we will go through each one of them

in more detail.

And as I said here, we are just going to lay down some fundamental theory about them.

Now, in the previous course, we went through the data of a single diet.

Right.

The first thing you have to remember about these type of diet is that similar diets are used in Atlantic

Circuits where small currents or high frequencies are involved, such as in radio, television and digital

logic circuits.

Generally, the function of a small signal diode is encapsulated in glass to protect the production

and usually have a red or black band at one end of their body to help identify which end is the cathode

terminal.

The most widely used of all, the glass encapsulated in a diode is the very common one and forty one

four to eight.

Small signal and switching diodes have much lower power and current ratings around 150 Myriam's 500

milliwatts maximum compared to power diodes.

But they can function better in high frequency applications or in clipping and switching applications

that deal with shorter duration persse waveforms.

The characteristics of a signal diode are different for both germanium and silicon types and are given

as follows.

So the germanium diode has a lower forward voltage drop than the silicon diode, while the germanium

diode has a forward voltage of only about zero point two to zero point three volts, the silicon that

has a forward voltage of about zero point six to zero point seven.

What's now?

The thing is both types of diodes have some advantages and disadvantages or one of the other.

Nowadays, silicon diodes are preferred over germanium diodes because the advantages of the silicon

one exceeds the advantages that the germanium one offers.

As a result, silicon diodes are much more widespread and using optronics than their germanium counterpart.

Great.

The next type of diode is the power diode.

As the name implies, power diodes are capable of passing large currents at high voltage values.

They behave similarly, a signal diode, meaning that they only conduct current in one direction from

its energy to its Gethard, but not in reverse direction.

A widely used application of these feature and diodes in general using the conversion of an alternative

voltage into a continuous voltage.

In other words, rectification.

In each chapter we will learn how to convert and alternating voltage to these high voltage.

So don't worry about rectification for the moment.

What you have to remember is that rectification is the process of converting an easy signal to the signal.

And this is possible in multiple ways, such as using a halfway rectifier or footway, rectifier, etc.

The reason why power deals are used in rectification is because, as you mentioned, they are capable

of passing large currents at high voltage values.

Rectifiers are essential circuits for power supplies that convert an AC input voltage into a DC voltage

supply that can be used to power grids.

Powering electric circuits often require a current higher than one empire, so power diodes are immersed

in the ratification process.

Well, however, small single diodes can also be used as rectifiers in low power, low current, less

than one EMP rectifiers or applications.

But where large forward by is current or higher reverse bias blocking voltages are involved, the junction

of a small signal diode would eventually overheat and melt.

So larger, more robust power diodes are used instead.

The power semiconductor diode, known simply as the power diode, has a much larger Zhongxun area compared

to its smaller single diode cousin, resulting in a high forward current capability of up to several

hundred ends and a reverse blocking voltage of up to several thousand miles.

Since the power diode has a large function, it is not suitable for high frequency applications.

About one megahertz, but special and expensive high frequency, high current diodes are also available.

For high frequency rectifier applications, Chutki diodes are generally used because of their short

reverse recovery time and low voltage drop in their forward bias condition.

So what are short videos?

The short video is another type of semiconductor diode, but have the advantage that they are forward.

Voltage drop is substantially less than that of the conventional Silicon Beach Junction diode shortly.

Diodes have many useful applications from rectification signal conditioning, switching through the

TTL and Seema's logic gates due mainly to their low power and fast switching speeds.

DTA Shocklee Logic Gates are identified by the letter as appearing somewhere in their logic Gates silkie

code like, for example, the seven four zero zero.

As discussed previously, the NIE voltage at which a short video turns on and starts conducting is at

the much lower voltage level than its production equivalent as shown here on the current voltage critics.

As we can see on the current voltage critics of the Chutki diet, this is very similar to that of a

standard production diet, except the Cordner or WNY voltage at which the Junction diet starts to conduct

is much lower at around zero point four.

What's the diet also has many uses in digital circuits and are extensively used in Chutki TTL digital

logic.

Gates selkowitz due to their higher frequency response, decreased switching time and lower power consumption

where high speed switching is required shortly based DTL is the obvious choice.

Don't worry, we will learn about diodes in more detail in our future course.

So let's move further.

The next type of diode is the Zehner Diode.

The Xanadu behaves just like a normal general-purpose diode consisting of a Silicon Junction and then

biased in the forward direction.

That is a. positive.

With respect to its cathode, it behaves just like a normal signal diode passing the rated current.

However, unlike a conventional diet that blocks any flow of current through itself, then reverse bias,

that is, the cathode becomes more positive than the not.

As soon as the reverse voltage reaches a predetermined value, the Senate diet begins to conduct in

the reverse direction.

This is because then the reverse mortgage applied across the zehner that exceeds the rated voltage of

the device, a process called avalanche breakdown occurs in the semiconductor depletion layer, and

the current starts to flow through the diode to limit this increase in voltage.

The colors now flowing through the Senate increases dramatically to the maximum Sevket value, which

is usually limited by a series resistor and once achieved, this reverse saturation currently remains

fairly constant over a wide range of reverse voltages.

The voltage point at which the voltage across the center will become stable is called the Zenner voltage,

and for Zinner diodes, this voltage can range from less than one would to a few hundred volts.

The point at which the Senate vote is triggered, the current to flow through the diode can be very

accurately controlled.

Ended up being stage of the diode semiconductor construction, giving the diode a specific zehner breakdown

voltage like for example, four point three words or seven point five words.

This is then their breakdown.

Voltage of the current voltage curve is almost a vertical straight line.

The Zehner diode is used in its reverse bias or reverse breakdown mode.

That is the diodes and connects to the negative supply from the current voltage casuistry curve.

We can see that the Zehner diode has a region in its reverse biostatistics of almost constant negative

voltage, regardless of the value of the current flowing through the diode.

The great thing is that this voltage remains almost constant, even if large changes in current providing

the xenon diodes current remains between the breakdown current and its maximum current rating.

This ability of the Xanadu to control itself can be used to great effect to regulate or stabilize a

voltage source against supply or load variations.

The fact that the voltage across a diode in the region is almost constant turns out to be an important

catalytic of the Zehner diode as it can be used in the simplest types of voltage regulator applications.

In simple terms of voltage, that greater is a system designed to automatically maintain a constant

voltage, as NATO is always operated in its reverse by its condition.

And as such, a simple voltage regulator circuit can be designed using a Zahner diode to maintain a

constant DC output voltage across the road in spite of variations in the input voltage or changes in

the load current.

Now, you know, future course will design voltage regulators with diodes, so you will get a better

understanding of how they are used.

Great.

So the last type of diode we are going to talk about is the light emitting diode.

Light emitting diodes or simply LEDs are among the most widely used of all the different types of semiconductor

diodes available today and are commonly used in TVs and color displays.

They are the most visible type of diode that emit a fairly narrow bandwidth of either visible light

at different colored wavelengths, invisible infrared light for remote controls or laser type light.

When a forward current is passed through down the light emitting diode or led LCD more commonly called,

is basically just a specialized type of diode as they have very similar electrical characteristics to

appear Zhongxun diode.

This means that the analogy will pass current in its forward direction, but block the flow of current

in the reverse direction.

When they operate in the forward bias region, so they conduct current through them.

They basically convert electrical energy into light energy.

Also, nearly all modern light emitting diodes have their cathode, which is the minus terminal identified

by either a notch or flat spot on the body or by the cathode lead being shorter than the other as the

anad, which is the plus lead, is longer than the cathode.

The high efficiency and directional nature of LEDs makes them ideal for many industrial uses, and these

are increasingly common in streetlights, parking garages, lightning walkway and other outdoor area

lightning.

However, another useful application of light emitting diodes is in opto coupling an optical blur or

auto isolator.

A city also called, is a single tronic device that consists of a light emitting diode, combined with

either a photo diode or a photo transistor to provide an optical signal path between an input connection

and an output connection while maintaining electrical isolation between two circuits.

This electrical isolation is especially useful where the signal from a low voltage circuit such as a

battery power circuit, computer or microcontroller is required to operate or control another external

circuit operating at a potentially dangerous voltage.

Now, if you were to wrap everything up, it would be something like this signal diodes are used in

high frequency applications already in low frequency applications where the current throw in the circuit

is small.

General-Purpose signal diodes such as the one n a forty one forty eight are made from silicon and have

a forward voltage drop of about zero point seven words, rectifier diodes or power diodes are used in

power supplies to convert, alternating current to direct current, a process called rectification.

They are also used elsewhere in circuits, of course, where a large current must pass through the diode.

Chutki diets, well, these diets feature low forward voltage drop as compared to the ordinary silicon

production diodes, Chutki diodes are mostly used in radio frequency applications and in digital circuits

due to their higher frequency response, decreased switching time and lower power consumption.

As in, diodes are used to maintain a fixed voltage.

As a result, they are mainly used in voltage regulator circuits.

Last but not least, light emitting diode is one of the most popular type of diodes, and then these

diode permits, the transfer of electric current between the electrodes, light is produced.