And welcome back.

Now let's build a simple circuit with a diode in this circuit.

We have a traveler's battery long before a 330 or resistor and a diode since we have a closed circuit,

the resistor and diode share the same current.

So the flow of current through the resistor and through the diode is the same.

The task is to find out the voltage across a diode and the current flowing in the circuit.

So how do we find out the current that flows here?

Let's recall Ohm's Law, which says that current is equal to voltage divided by resistance.

Some would say that the current in the circuit is equal to twelve words divided by 330 ohms.

This would be true if the entire werewolf's is dropped across the resistor.

So if we place a meter across the register.

We will notice that instead of 12 words, eleven point three words is dropped across the register.

This is because, as we have already mentioned a couple of times, diets have a forward voltage drop

across them when they are biased.

So they cannot not current rhythm.

These forward voltage drop is not something that you set.

It is given in the data set of the particular diet that you are using.

This diet that we have here has by default a forward voltage of zero point seven words.

So around zero Poisonwood.

Of course, that can be a little less or higher needs to be dropped across it in order to conduct current

and to work in the forward based operating region so we could use, again, a voltmeter and place it

across a diode.

But instead, if you just hover over the diode down on the right corner, it says that the voltage drop

across it is around six hundred thirty one millivolts.

So if 631 millivolts is dropped across a diode, then it means that the remaining voltage, which is

eleven point three hundred sixty eight volts, is dropped across the resistor.

If you remember kickoffs, what is law?

The law says that the total voltage, which is to levels, is equal to the sum of all the voltage drops

within the same loop.

So the voltage drop across the resistor plus the voltage drop across a diode must be equal to twelve

watts.

And of course, the sum of the two of what it drops is equal to two volts.

Now that we know the voltage drop across the register, we can use almost low to calculate the current

flow.

So the current will be equal to eleven point three hundred sixty eight volts, divided by three hundred

thirty ohms, which gives us a current of thirty four point forty five million's.

Great.

Now, one more thing I want to clarify here is that if the default forward voltage of this diode is

zero point seven, which is why only 631 millivolts is dropped across it and not zero point seven or

seven hundred million watts, that's because the current flowing in the circuit is lower than necessary.

You see, even though the voltage provided by the DC source is far higher than the forward voltage drop

of the diode, if the current that is limited by this resistor is lower than a certain amount, the

voltage drop across the diode will be lower than the forward voltage drop.

So if I lower the resistors value to, let's say 110, then of course a more current will flow in the

circuit and now the forward voltage drop has increased to almost 700 million watts.

So why is that?

If we take a look at the latest of these 140 140 diode in the forward current versus forward voltage

graph.

We can see here that the higher the forward voltage, the higher the forward current.

So, for example, when the voltage drop across a diode is around zero point eight volts, the current

flowing through the diode will be 10 Myriam's.

If the current is limited to just one millionth because of resistor in series with the dial, for example,

the forward voltage drop across the diode will be around zero point five void's.

Now, the main takeaway is that the forward voltage drop across a diode can be controlled to a certain

degree, of course, by the current flowing through the diode, usually in a real circuit.

It's not a diode that will limit the current flow in the circuit, but the resistor.

So make sure that enough current is flowing through the diode so that it can work properly in the forward

operating region.

But be careful, the current must not exceed the maximum forbert current allowed.