It happens quite often that you need a fixed D.C. voltage across a lot, but the D.C. power supply our

using is not the voltage that you need for your load.

So you have a 12 voice battery and the load now the load when we say load, it can really mean anything.

And I see others here with David have an input impedance and the resistor is a good way to represent

the load.

So let's imagine a scenario when the load operates on three point three words.

So the law that requires no more than three point three words, but you only have a 12 watts battery.

So powering the load we travel, it's directly we blow it up.

While I think you could use is a wattage divider.

Right.

Using a basic voltage divided circuit, we can manage to reduce the voltage to three point three miles.

This circuit has many problems, however.

First, there will be always a constant participation on these two resistors.

So you will waste a lot of power by providing these three point three words.

If I hover over the first resistor down on the right corner, it says that this resistor dissipates

a power of 96 milliwatts and the second one dissipates the power of 34 milliwatts.

This means that more than 100 milliwatt is wasted for providing this three point three watts.

The second problem of the circuit is that the load cannot request too much current from this voltage

divider because let's say at the moment the load requires more current.

Suddenly the voltage across the load decreases, which might be lower than the required operating voltage

of the device.

Now you have to recalculate the resistors value and this will just not work as expected.

It's very unstable.

If you don't remember why the output voltage of the voltage divided drops.

Please go back to the core called what is dividers.

I explained it there.

Remolded is.

So all the dividers are not usually used to generate supply shortages because they provide no regulation,

it can work well if the law that the world is divided, Powers has a high input impedance in the range

of mega ohms, having a 10 mega home register, say in parallel with this resistor won't effect it much

as long as this resistor is itself order of magnitude lower than the input impedance of the load.

So how can we improve the circuit?

Well, using multiple diodes in series.

By connecting five identical diodes in series, each one having a forward voltage of zero point seven

words, we can more or less generate a stable three point three words.

The current through the diodes is set by these 150 resistor.

As a result, we for twelve volt power supply, around 658 millivolts, is right across each diode.

If we take the load out just for a second.

The current flow in the circuit can be calculated by dividing the voltage drop across the register with

its resistance, the voltage drop across the resistor is equal to swearwords, minus the sum of all

the individual voltage drops across.

Each resistor has eight point seven volts divided by 150.

Ohm is equal to fifty eight millions.

Now, the advantage of using the with compared to the volatility of either one is that the output voltage

will be constant in spite of variations in the current in the load connected.

Or in the variations of the input voltage applied, hence supply across the voltage is provided by the

diode series combination.

Now we can say that the output voltage is regulated, however.

In the future, we will learn how to build more performant, more energy efficient voltage regulators.

For instance, we can replace these series diodes, WEAFER singers and their diode using just the singers

in their diode.

We can generate a constant three point three words, but more on this later.