Welcome back, guys.

So a while ago, we mentioned about rectifiers, right, a rectifier is a crucial circuit in almost

any device since most devices work on DC Current.

However, the electricity that we get from the wall socket is AC voltage.

Now, of course, depending on where you live, this AC voltage can be higher or lower.

But however, it would be it's an AC voltage.

And since most devices work on the AC, we need somehow to convert these AC voltage to a DC one so that

we can power our electronic device.

For example, if you have a mobile phone or a laptop, we have seen these charger that you plug into

the wall socket and charges up your laptop or phone.

Now, with AC voltage, of course, you cannot charge a battery.

So every charger has a rectifier circuit inside of it which will convert this high voltage to a lower

DC voltage, which is firewall's or trowels, whatever.

This is basically done using a transformer which will lower the AC voltage coming from the worst of

it.

And then there will be a rectifier circuit which will convert the AC voltage to a DC one.

And finally, we will have a voltage regulator circuit which will output a constant five words to or

whatever, but more on voltage regulators later in the course.

Now, converting AC to DC can be done by using a single diode or a group of diodes.

Halfway rectifiers, for example, use a single diode while a four way rectifier uses multiple diodes.

The working of a halfway rectifier takes advantage of the fact that the diodes only allow current to

flow in one direction.

A halfway rectifier is a seamless form of rectifier available.

We will look at the complete halfway rectifier circuit later, but let's first understand exactly what

this type of rectifier is doing.

Now, this diagram that you can see here shows the basic principle of a halfway rectifier.

When a standard AC waveform is passed through a halfway rectifier, only half of the AC waveform remains

halfway.

Rectifiers only allow one half cycle of the AC voltage through every block the other half cycle.

Ursin here, only one diode is required to construct a halfway rectifier.

In essence, this is whole that the halfway rectifiers doing since these systems are designed to have

current flowing in a single direction, which is a constant voltage which we will describe later.

Putting an AC waveform with positive and negative cycles through a DC device can have destructive and

dangerous consequences.

So we use half rectifiers to convert the AC input power into DC output power.

But the diode is only part of it.

A complete halfway ratifiers would consists of three main parts a transformer, a resistive load and

diode a halfway rectifier circuit diagram looks like this.

We will now go through the process of how halfway rectifier converts an AC voltage to a DC output.

First, a high voltage is applied to the primary side of the adult transformer and we will get a low

voltage on the secondary widing, which will be applied to the diode during the positive half cycle

of the AC voltage.

The diode will be forward by us and the current flows through the diamond during the negative half cycle.

The AC voltage, the diode will be reversed by us and the flow of current will be blocked.

The final output voltage waveform on the second side is shown here.

This can be confusing on first glance.

So let's dig into the theory of this a bit more.

We will focus on the secondary side of the circuit.

If we replace the secondary transformer cause before source voltage, we can simplify the circuit diagram

of the halfway rectifier as shown here.

Now, we don't have the transformer part of the circuit distracting us for the positive half cycle of

the AC source voltage, the equivalent circuit effectively becomes as shown here.

This is because the diode is forward biased and it has allowing current to pass through so we have a

closed circuit, but for the negative half cycle of the AC source voltage, the equivalent circuit becomes

as shown here because the diode is now in reverse bias mode.

No current is able to pass through it.

As such, we now have an open circuit since current cannot flow through the load during this time,

the output voltage is equal to zero and this all happens very quickly since an AC waveform will oscillate

between positive and negative many times each second, depending on the frequency of the aquifer.

So here is what the halfway rectifier waveform looks like on the input side and what it looks like on

the output side after ratification.

That is the conversion from AC to D.C..

This graph here shows a positive half where rectifier.

This is a halfway rectifier, which only allows the positive half cycle through the diode and blocks

the negative half cycle.

So let's see how this works out in our simulator.

Now, here, instead of using a standard transformer which we lower the AC voltage coming from the wall

socket, we use a simple AC power supply, which is a 40 hertz, five words, AC power supply.

And as you can see here, we have a diode and a load.

Now, we already know that they are not currently only one direction, which is when the anode is more

positive than the cathode.

So there is a forward voltage drop across it.

This means that when the AC voltage is in the positive half cycle, the diode will be forward, biased

and allow the positive half cycle to be passed through.

However, during the negative half cycle, the diet is reversed by us, so the method is more positive

than the Senate, which will block the current through the diet.

As a result, we can say that the diet takes the easy input and ratifies it so that the negative portion

of the output is removed.

And essentially, even if it's a pulsating voltage, it's a DC voltage.

So the load receives a DC voltage because the current is passing through it in only one direction.

The peak voltage of the output voltage is.

Four point four words, because there's a zero point six words, bodies drop across the dial.

Remember, there will always be a voltage diode when it's conducting current.

Now, the obvious problem that we have here is that DC voltage, even if it's a DC voltage, it's a

DC pulsating voltage.

And the devices just cannot work with pulsating DC voltages.

We somehow need to convert this DC pulsating voltage into a clean, constant DC voltage.

But how are we going to do that?

Well, here comes the filter.

Filters are components used to convert or smooth out pulsating DC waveforms into constant or relatively

constant DC waveforms.

Although halfway rectifiers without filters are theoretically possible, they just can be used for any

practical applications as DC equipement requires a constant waveform.

We need to smooth out this pulsating waveform for it to be any use in the real world.

And this is why in reality we use half a ratifiers with a filter, a capacitor or an inductor can be

used as a filter, but halfway rectifiers with capacitor filter is the most commonly used.

And this shows how a capacity filter can be used to smooth out a pulsating DC waveform into a constant

DC waveform by placing us moving capacitor across the output of the rectifier and in parallel with our

load, we can't get away from that.

We re more to a DC voltage.

The smoothing works because the capacitor charges up where the voltage from the rectifier rises above

that of the capacitor, and then as the rectifier voltage falls, the capacitor provides the required

Corot from its stored charge.

In this way, the capacitor is able to provide charge when it is not available from the rectifier,

and accordingly the voltage varies considerably less than if the capacitor were not present.

So basically the capacitor will charge up to the peak voltage of the DC pulsating voltage.

And then when this positive, pulsating voltage starts to fall, the capacitor will start discharging

through the load.

And here we are now, let's place a capacitor in parallel with the load and see what happens.

Well, as you can see, the output waveform is not the one that we have expected.

Why?

Because the value of the capacitor is just too low since the value it's too low, the capacitor just

cannot hold enough charge to maintain a constant DC voltage.

Basically, it will discharge too fast since the current required by the load is high.

So let's boost its value up to, let's say, 100 microworld.

And now, as you can see, the output waveform is in a much better shape, if you look at the current

passing through the load, the current is almost like a DC current.

I said almost because there is a triple voltage on our D.C. voltage.

So in simple terms, rieper voltage means the amount of AC voltage that appears on a DC voltage.

So these kind of fluctuations that you see here is called us ripple.

How can we completely eliminate that?

Yes, one method is to increase the value of the capacitor to, let's say, 500 micro microflora.

Now, as you can see, we have successfully eliminated DOS, big repairs and the voltage that our Lord

received is almost a constant four point three words.

Now, the question you might ask is, how can we calculate the value of the capacitor?

Now, the thing is, there's no plant formula for a capacitor calculation.

The choice of the capacitor value needs to fulfill a number of requirements.

In the first case, the value must be chosen so that it's time.

Constant is very much longer than the time interval between the successive peaks of the rectifier waveform

where overload load is the overall resistance of the load for the supply sees the value of the capacitor

in Farad's and F is the Reaper frequency.

You remember about our time constant right?

Multiplying the resistance of the load with the capacitor.

We get a value in seconds.

But what is the ripple frequency?

If the frequency of the AC voltage that you get from your means is 50 hertz, that the radio frequency

will also be 50 hertz?

If you were using a fully ratified report, frequency will be double.

But more on this later.

In our example, we use a 40 hertz AC signal.

So the radio frequency is as well 50 hurt.

I mean, 40 hertz.

Sorry.

So we use a 500 microphone capacitor for a 640 or resistor.

Right.

And multiply these two values.

We get a time constant of around zero point thirty two seconds.

Now, the time interval between the successive peaks is one over frequency, which in our case is one

over 40 hertz, which is zero point zero 25 seconds.

So indeed, zero point thirty two seconds is much greater than zero point zero twenty five seconds,

which means that the capacitor we are using is good enough.

Now, the thing is, you don't really need to worry about calculating the value of the capacitor.

I mean, it just doesn't need to be perfect.

Why?

Because you see it usually or all the time.

We use a voltage regulator circuit after the filter capacitor.

Basically a voltage regulator circuit is a circuit designed to automatically maintain a constant voltage.

The voltage regulator will output a constant DC voltage, which can be three point three words, five

words to avoid, etc. depending on the voltage regulator I see who are using.

And this will basically take this filtered output voltage from the rectifier and convert it to a pure

DC output voltage.

We're going to learn about voltage regulators soon.

Basically, the easiest voltage regulator can be done using just a single ZEHNDER diode.

However, we are going to learn about more complex one using transistors now in the next course.

Let's see how a full way rectifier works and see their.