When we come back, in the previous course, we have seen that a halfway rectifier uses only a single

diode to convert AC to DC, so it is very easy to construct the halfway rectifier, right.

However, a simple dial in halfway rectifier only allows either a positive hot cycle or a negative cycle

of the input AC single and the remaining half cycle they put AC signal is logged.

As a result, a large amount of power is wasted.

Furthermore, the halfway rectifiers are not suitable in the applications which need a steady and smooth

DC voltage.

So the halfway rectifiers are not efficient AC to DC converters.

But we can easily overcome this drawback by using another type of rectifier known as fuel, where rectifier,

the footway rectifier is further classified into two types sensor tefft footway rectifier and full weighbridge

rectifier.

All right.

So let's talk first about center tableful where rectifier.

As you can see, a sensor test for rectifier uses a center that transformer along with two diodes and

the load very connected in the middle before going to the working principle of the circuit.

Let's first take a look at the center path transformer.

Then an additional wire is connected across the exact middle of the secondary widing of a transformer.

It is known as a center tat's transformer.

The wire is adjusted in such a way that it falls in the exact middle point of the secondary widing.

So the wire is exactly at zero walls of the easy signal.

This wire is known as a center tap.

The center transformer works almost similar to a normal transformer, like a normal transformer.

The center transformer also increases or reduces the AC voltage.

However, a center transformer has another important feature, and that is the secondary widing of the

center.

Transformer divides the input AC current or AC signal into two parts.

The upper part of the secondary lighting produces a positive voltage one and the lower part of the secondary

widing produces a negative voltage, which is way to where we combine these two voltages output load.

We get a complete AC signal.

The sun between we want and we do gives the total output voltage.

So the voltages we want to read you are equal in magnitude, but opposite in direction.

That is the voltages produced by the upper part and lower part of the secondary widing are 180 degrees

out of phase with each other.

However, by using a four way rectifier with standard transformer, we can produce the voltages that

are in phase with each other in simple words, by using a full way rectifier.

If sedar tap the transformer, we can produce a current that flows only in one direction.

So how does a standard tableful way rectifier works during the positive lifecycle of the input AC signal

terminal A become positive, terminal B become negative and a centre tap is grounded.

So it means that it is at zero towards the positive terminal is connected to the P side of the diode.

The one and the negative terminal B is connected to the inside of the diode D one.

So the diode one is forward by during the positive cycle and allows electric current through it.

On the other hand, the negative terminal B is connected to the P side of the diode D2 and the positive

terminal A is connected to the inside of the diode D2.

So the dial of the data is reverse biased during the positive cycle and does not allow electric current

through it during the negative half cycle.

Current flows only in the lower part of the circuit, while the upper part of the circuit carry no current

to the load because diode one is reverse bias.

Duse, during the negative cycle of the input AC signal only diode D2 allows electric current while

diode one does not allow electric current does the dial.

The one allows electric current during the positive cycle and iodized to allow electric current during

the negative cycle of the input AC signal.

And as a result, both have cycles positive and negative of the input AC signal are allowed.

So the DC voltage is almost equal to the input AC voltage and the average output voltage across the

lower resistor is double that of the single halfway rectifier circuit.

Earth, the spaces between each halfway developed by each diode is now being filled in by the other

diode.

The average DC output voltage across the lower resistor is now double that of the single Halfaya rectifier

circuit and is about zero point six hundred thirty seven times VMAX of the peak voltage, assuming no

losses.

So WiMAX is the maximum peak value in one half of the second widing, and we are analysis that our best

value, we can even improve the average output of the rectifier, while at the same time reducing the

AC variations of the rectified output by using a smoothing capacitor to filter the output waveform.

All right.

But how could we connect one here?

Well, it's very easy as moving.

Or is it a capacitor connected in a parallel with the load across the output increases the average D.C.

output level even higher as the capacitor acts like a storage device.

Great.

So what are the advantages of a four way rectifier with a center transformer?

The first one is the high rectifier efficiency.

Fully rectifier has high rectifier efficiency than the halfway rectifier.

That means the footway rectifier converts AC to D.C. more efficiently than the halfway rectifier.

The second advantage is the low power loss.

Well, in a halfway rectifier, only half cycle is allowed and the remaining half cycle is blocked.

Right.

And as a result, more than half of the voltage is wasted.

But in a full way rectifier, both half cycles are allowed at the same time.

So no signal is wasted in a four way rectifier.

The third advantage is that low REPL the output DC signal in Fourier Rectifier has fewer ripples than

the halfway rectifier.

This will also present a huge drawback, which is a center that transformers are expensive and also

occupy a large space.

So again, the main disadvantage of this type of Fourier rectifier circuit is that a larger transformer

for a given power output is required with two separate but identical secondary.

Whiting's making this type of Woolooware rectifying circuit costly compared to the full Wadebridge Rectifiers,

the liquid equivalent grade.

I wish we could have simulated this liquid, but unfortunately the simulator doesn't provide us a center

type transformer, so we will only be able to simulate Durbridge Rectifier that we are going to talk

about right now.

All right.

So another type of circuit that produces the same output waveform as the Fourier rectifier is the full

wave bridge rectifier.

This type of signal phase rectifier uses for individual rectifying diodes connected in a closed loop

bridge configuration to produce the desired output.

The main advantage of this bridge circuit is that it does not require a special center tap transformer,

thereby reducing its size and caused the single secondary.

Widing is connected to one side of the dial the bridge network and the load to the other side.

The four diodes labeled the one to the four, are arranged in series pairs, with only two diodes conducting

currently during each half cycle.

So during the positive cycle of the supply diodes, the Wanandi to conduct these series wire diodes,

the three, the four are reverse bias and the current flows through the load.

But why do we construct this circuit in a simulator and continue the discussion there?

All right.

So how does this work with work?

Well, let me slow down the simulation speed a little bit and let's see what happens during the positive

half cycle of the AC input voltage.

So during the positive half cycle, diodes Daewon one indeed you conducting a series, but the three

and four are switched off as they are now reversed by us.

Now let me adjust the simulation speed again.

So during the negative half cycle diodes, the three and four conducting series, while the one and

two are reversed by us, great.

So we have seen how awful we have projected fireworks, though there are a few things to point out here.

If you look at the circuit during each half cycle, the current flow through to diodes instead of just

one like for the Hathway rectify, right?

So the amplitude of the output voltage is to what is drops, which is two times zero point seven.

So one point four was less than the input max amplitude.

Also, the radio frequency is twice the supply frequency.

So Reba frequency is twice the frequency of the AC signal being rectified.

Why the negative and positive pulses every cycle are now relative to the negative and positive sides

of the rectifier and the voltage changeover occurs every half cycle.

Therefore, the period is half and the frequency is twice.

Now, in order to provide a smooth D.C. output, we can, of course, connect capacitor in parallel

with the load.

But one thing I want to mention here is the type of the capacitor that you should use in the circuit.

I mean, there are so many types of capacitors out there and one might be confused whether to use a

ceramic capacitor and the capacitor or probably a tantalum capacitor.

So resurrecting a reservoir capacitor for moving applications in a power supply not only is the value

in terms of capacitance important to give the required deeper voltage reduction, but it is also very

important to ensure that the capacitor rippa a current rating is not exceeded.

If too much current is drawn by the load, the capacitor will heat up and its life expectancy reduced,

or in extreme cases, it could fail, sometimes catastrophically.

If you open the power supply case, you will probably see big bulky capacitors inside of it.

Why do you think these capacitors are so big?

That's because of their capacitance.

We had this cost that the more current the law requires, the higher the smoothing capacitance has to

be.

Right.

Generally, we almost always use acrylic capacitors in our power supply circuit.

Why?

Because they have a greater capacitance per volume than any other type of capacitor.

Because of the size difference.

Few non-equity capacitors are made with capacitors greater than 10 microworld because of their construction

and polarity.

Sensitive operation electrolytic capacitors require more careful use than other capacitors if installed

improperly, like reverse polarized electrolytic capacitors will not achieve Corot capacitors and may

build internal gas pressure, leading to a minor explosion.

Also, because of their higher capacitance value, quality capacitors are most often used in lower frequency

applications, such as in power supply filters.

The high capacitance value typically associated with Atleti capacitors act as a short or low impedance

lines for radio frequency and higher frequency applications.

Why?

Because the capacity of reactance is inversely proportional with the frequency of capacitance.

So a big capacitance along with a high frequency, the capacity reactance will be highly affected,

meaning that it will be very low acting more like a short circuit for high frequency AC signals.


