Hello, and welcome back to New Course in the tutorial about Rectify errors.

We saw that the DC output voltage being controlled by the rectifier is at a value below that of domains

input voltage, and this is because of the forward voltage drop caused by the diodes.

The voltage multiplier, however, is a special type of diode rectifier circuit, which can potentially

produce an output voltage many times greater than the applied input voltage, although it is usually

in the adjoining circuit to use a voltage transformer to increase the voltage.

Sometimes a switchable step up transformer, or a specially insulated transformer required for high

wattage applications may not always be available.

One native approach is to use a diode voltage multiplier circuit, which increases or steps up the voltage

without the use of a transformer.

What is multipliers are similar in many ways to rectify errors in that they convert AC to DC voltages

for use in many electrical and electronic circuit applications, such as in microwave or words, strong

electric field coils for cathode ray tubes, electrostatic and high voltage test equipment, where it

is necessary to have a very high DC voltage generated from a relatively low AC supply.

Generally, the DC output voltage of the rectifier circuit is limited by the peak value of its sinusoidal

input voltage.

But by using combinations of rectifier diodes and capacitors together, we can effectively multiply

this input peak voltage to give a DC output equal to some multiple of the peak voltage value of the

AC input voltage.

Now, let's consider these basic voltage multiplier circuit.

These circuit shows a basic, symmetrical voltage multiplier circuit made up from two halfway rectifier

circuits by adding a second diode and capacitor to the output of a standard half way rectifier.

We can increase its output voltage by a set amount.

This type of what is multiplier configuration is known as a full web series multiplier because one of

the diodes is conducting in each hive cycle.

The same goes for a full way rectifier circuit.

So then the sinusoidal input voltage is positive, capacitor sea water charges up to die or the D1 and

then the Cenozoic, the voltage is negative capacitor AC to charges up to Diode D to the dogwood voltage,

which is the double of the input voltage is taken across the two series connected capacitors.

Now that we understand how a full day of voltage multiplier works, let's see another zero grid, which

is called voltage Doppler.

Both its name suggests what is Deabler is a voltage multiplier circuit, which has a voltage multiplication

factor of two.

The circuit consists of only two diodes, two capacitors and an oscillating AC input voltage.

This simple diet capacitor pumps circuit gives a DC output voltage equal to the peak to peak value of

the sinusoidal input.

In other words, double the peak voltage value because the diodes and the capacitors work together to

effectively double the voltage.

So how does it work?

During the negative half cycle of the signals, the input waveform diode D1 is forward biased and conducts

charging at the pump capacitor, see one to the peak value of the input voltage because there is no

return path for capacitors you want to discharge into.

It remains fully charged, acting as a storage device in series with the voltage supply.

At the same time, D.O.D. Do conducts a wired one charging up capacitor, Setu.

During the positive whole cycle diode, D1 is reverse biased, blocking the discharging of C1 y diode

D2 is forward biased charging up capacitor C2, but because there is a voltage across Capacitor C one

already equal to the peak input voltage capacitor, C2 charges to twice the peak voltage value of the

input signal.

In other words, it charges up to the positive peak voltage plus negative peak voltage.

So on the negative half cycle, Deewana charges see one to a peak voltage and on the positive half cycle,

the two at the peak voltage to the voltage on the C one and transfers it all to see to the voltage across

capacitor c two discharges to the load ready for the next half cycle.

Then the voltage across Capacitor C two can be calculated as two times the peak value of the input voltage

minus.

Of course, the voltage drops across the diodes used both capacitor C to only charges up during the

half cycle of the input wave form.

The resulting output voltage discharged into the load has a repoll frequency equal to the supply frequency,

hence the name half wave voltage double.

The disadvantage of this is that it can be difficult to smooth out these large repair frequency in much

the same way as for a halfway rectifier circuit.

Also, capacitors capacitor, you must have a DC voltage rating at least twice the value of the peak

input voltage.

The advantage of what is multipliers here, which is that it allows higher voltages to be created from

a low voltage power source without a need for an expensive high voltage transformer, as the what is

Doppler circuit makes it possible to use the transformer with a lower step up ratio, that would be

neat if an ordinary full weight supply were used.

However, while voltage multipliers can boost the voltage, they can only supply low currents to a high

resistance load because the generated output voltage quickly drops off low current increases.

Also note that by reversing the direction of the diodes and capacitors in the circuit, we can also

reverse the direction of the output voltage, creating a negative voltage output.

And now let's have a look at these high voltage Tripler Circuit.

By adding an additional a single diode capacitor stage to a halfway voltage doubler, we can create

another voltage multiplier circuit that increases its input voltage by a factor of three and producing

what is called a voltage three power circuit.

This voltage multiplier circuit gives ADC output equal to three times the peak voltage value of the

signal, so the input signal was with the previous voltage Doppler.

The diodes within the voltage triple circuit charge and block the discharge of the competitors depending

upon the direction of the input half cycle.

Then one big voltage is dropped across three and two peak voltages across C2, and as the two capacitors

are in series, this results in the load seeing a voltage equivalent to three peak voltages.

Note that the real output voltage will be three times the peak input voltage minus the voltage drops

across the diodes used.

Thanks for watching.

See you in this course!


