Hello, and welcome back to the course.

We are going to talk about three circuit applications of diodes.

The first one is signal rectifier diode gate and the last one is diode clamps.

There are occasions when you use a diode to make away form of one polarity only if the input waveform

isn't a sine wave.

You usually don't think of it as a rectification in the sense of a power supply.

For instance, you might want a train of -- corresponding to the rising edge of a square wave.

The easiest way is to rectify the differentiated wave like you figure here.

Always keep in mind, the 0.6 volts approximately form a drop of the diode.

The circuit, for instance, gives no output for square waves smaller than 0.6 volts pick to pick.

And the reason is because if the input square wave is less than 0.6 would speak to peak.

This diode won't reach the conducting point, which is the forward diode drop, so it will block all

the current trying to pass through it.

If this is a problem, there are various tricks to circumvent this limitation.

One possibility is to use hot carrier diodes like Schottky diodes, with a forward drop of about zero

point twenty five volts.

Before showing you another possible solution, I want to explain why the signal looks like this here,

as you know, a capacitor will never conduct this current right.

You can try in the simulator to build a DC power source in Series B for capacitor.

And you will see that current will not flow through it.

What we have to keep in mind is that capacitor only conducts DC current until it charges up, and that

these spikes here are the signals that made through the capacitor until it charged up.

And the reason why we have positive and negative spikes is because these square wave, when it's high,

let's say it is a five volts and when it is low, it is minus fireballs.

So the zero world should be in the middle.

The output will contain only the positive spikes because that's the only time when the die on this form

of bias.

But of course, as you can see, the positive spike got a little smaller due to the forward drop of

0.6 walls.

A possible solution to this problem of finite drop is shown in figure here in this rocket diode, the

yuan compensates details for a drop by providing 0.6 walls of bias to hold to the threshold of conduction.

Using a diode like this, too, provided the bias has several advantages.

The first one is that there is nothing to adjust.

The second one is that the compensation will be nearly perfect and changes of the forward drop will

be compensated properly.

Later, we will see other instances of fair compensation of forward drops in diodes transistors efforts.

It is a simple and powerful trick.

Another application of diodes, which we will recognize later under the general heading of logic, is

to pass the higher of two voltages without affecting the lower.

A good example is battery backup, a method of keeping something running, for example, the real time

clock chip in a computer which keeps running count of date and time, right?

That must be continue running even when the device is switched off.

This figure here shows a circuit that does the job.

The battery does nothing until the +5 or its power is switched off.

Then it takes over without interruption.

So again, when the computer is running, the real time clock chip gets the power from these five watts

power supply diode.

D1 will not conduct because its cathode is a plus firewalls.

So these three world is not enough for the diode to make it conduct after the computer is switched off.

Diode the D1 start conducting.

Alright, I hope you understood.

Now let's move to the next one.

Sometimes it is desirable to limit the range of a signal, for example, to prevent it from exceeding

certain voltage limits somewhere in a circuit.

The circuit shown here will accomplish this.

The diode prevents the output from exceeding about plus 5.6 volts, with no effect on voltage less than

that.

The only limitation is that the input must not go so negative that the reverse breakdown voltage of

the diode is exceeded.

For example, for a 41 48 diode, it's reverse breakdown voltage is at minus 75.

With this resistor limits the diode current during clamping action.

However, a side effect is that it adds one kilogram of serious resistance to the signal, so its value

is a compromise between maintaining a desirable low source.

Turning resistance and the desirable low clamping current diode claims are standard equipment on all

inputs in contemporary CMOS digital logic.

Without them, the delicate input circuits are easily destroyed by static electricity discharges during

handling.


