Hello and welcome back.

So as I mentioned in the previous caller, there are many types of diodes, right?

And the secret symbol is for the most popular diodes that we use are these buy here.

Actually, I forgot to include the shiny LCD this popular that it in almost all cases, is not a critical

piece of component with you anyway.

The basic and most use diode is the general purpose diode.

Then we have the Schottky diode, which is used to for high frequency applications.

More on that later.

And finally, we have the Zenner diode, which I have to say it's a very fun component to use a xenon

diode in the silicon semiconductor device that permits current to flow in either a forward or reverse

direction.

Hmm.

That sounds interesting.

If you ask me.

So let's see.

What does the Zenner has to hide?

Oh.

Now, discussing about the diet secrets, we should look through the graphical representation of the

operation of the Zenner diet.

Normally it is called the voltage current characteristics, offers and diet, so those in our diet operate

just like a normal diet.

Then in the forward bias mode and has a turn on the voltage of between 0.3 0.7 what's so often interesting

here?

However, when connected in the reverse mode, which is usually in most of its applications, a small

leakage current may flow.

The Zenner diet has a well-defined reverse breakdown voltage to which it starts conducting current and

continues operating continuously in the reverse bias mode without getting damaged.

So as the reverse voltage increases to the predetermined breakdown voltage, a current starts flowing

through the diode and the current crisis to a maximum which is determined by the series resistor, after

which it stabilizes and remains constant over a wide range of applied voltage.

What is very important for you to understand is that the voltage drop across the diode remains constant

over a wide range of shortages, a feature that makes Zehnder diode suitable for use in voltage regulations.

All right, but what is the voltage regulator?

Well, the purpose of a voltage regulator is to keep their voltage in the circuit relatively close to

a desired value.

So let's say if the redone voltage of the Zanardi is firewalled, then no matter how much is the source

voltage, the voltage drop from this point to this point will be always firewalls.

Of course, the voltage of the power source has to be higher than the breakdown voltage of the Zenner,

because otherwise there is no point in using those diode and does in a diode will be able to basically

reduce the power supply voltage to a desired voltage.

So I say, let's see a then there diode in action.

So just like how I did in the previous course before doing a simulation, I want to show you something

in this data sheet.

So again, there is a breakdown voltage can be seen in its data sheet, right?

And so for this particular, then a diode, the breakdown voltage where there is 3.3 to 100.

This means that the what is drop across the diode will always be 3.3 volts, no matter how much is the

voltage of the power supply.

But if it's higher than 100, then you will damage the poles and a diode.

So how does this water show Little Circuit work?

Well, this resistor here is connected, these series does an audio to limit the current flow through

the diode.

The stabilized output voltage v out is taken from across the general diode, and there's no diode is

connected with its cathode terminal to the positive rail of the DC supply, which means that it is reverse

biased and will be operating in its breakdown condition.

As you can see, the load is connected in parallel, which does an audio.

So the voltage across the load is always the same as the general voltage.

You have to know that there is a minimum of Zenner current for which the stabilization of the voltage

is effective, which means that if there's too little current going through the Zenner diode, the output

voltage might be less than 5.6 volts.

So by looking at the data sheet of the then radio that you can find a recommended current for, which

does not operate well and also it doesn't heat up the upper limit of current is, of course, dependent

upon the power rating of the device.

So as you can see, the supply voltage must be greater than the breakdown voltage of the diode.

And the magic here is that no matter how much is the power supply voltage, the output voltage will

always be the breakdown voltage of the Zenner diode.

What's more, problem with the stabilizer circuit is that the diet can sometimes generate electrical

noise or on top of the DC supply as it tries to stabilize the voltage.

Well, normally this is not a problem for most applications, but the addition of a large value decoupling

capacitor across the general output may be required to give additional smoothing.

Then to summarize a little bit.

Well, then the diode is always operated in.

It's a reverse bias condition, right?

And such a simple voltage regulator circuit can be designed using goods in their diode to maintain a

constant DC output voltage across the load in spite of variations in the input voltage or changes in

the load current and the stabilized output voltage is always selected to be the same as the breakdown

voltage of the diode.

So this might be good for some applications, right, but it has a huge drawback.

What happens if I change this load to, let's say, $100?

Aha.

Look, what happened?

Well, the regulated output was it is not regulated anymore, and it has dropped from five point six

balls to just 2.5 volts.

Hmm.

How is this possible?

Well, as I said, the general diode needs a minimum current through it to operate well, and this time

the load registers steals the current from the standard diode because the clock is always following

the path of least resistance.

So in order to solve this problem.

Also, the other problem is the noise added on the top of the DC voltage is the following circuit.

Well, well, what do we have here?

This is the very, very famous device called the transistor, which is the core and the heart of digital

electronics, and which also has tons of applications in analog circuits.

We didn't learn about this component yet.

I know.

So when we learn about it, you can come back and check the circuit out for the load.

Here is again, thank you know.

But this time, when I reduce its value to one hundred, the voltage doesn't drop at all.

I just remembered that this circuit has another huge disadvantage, and that is this transistor here,

which is used to limit the current borders and a diode is not only limiting the current for there's

no diode.

It also limits the current for the whole circuit.

So the maximum current that can flow to the load is basically 15 volts divided by 500.

And from this sum goes to the Zenner PS. To the load, right?

If you designed this resistor to a small the current through the, then there will be too high and you

will damage those and a diode.

And on the other hand, if this value is too high, the current that goes to the load will be small.

So as you see, it's all about the compromise.

So this could solve all the problems, the resistor value, as you can see, can be much higher, so

it reduces the power dissipation designer also allowing a higher output current.